PETITIONER:ANANDA BEHERA AND ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF ORISSA AND ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:27/10/1955BENCH:BOSE, VIVIANBENCH:BOSE, VIVIANAIYAR, N. CHANDRASEKHARADAS, SUDHI RANJANJAGANNADHADAS, B.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1956 AIR   17		  1955 SCR  (2) 919ACT:Fundamental  Rights,  Enforcement of-Oral  sale	 of  fisheryrights for future years by owner of estate before it  vestedin  the State by legislation-Nature of such rights-Profit  aprendre,   if	immovable  property   requiring	  registeredinstrument for transfer--Such sale, if creates any right  toproperty-Non-recognition  by the State, if transgresses	 anyfundamental  rights  Constitution  of  India,  Arts.   19(1)(f).31(1)-Orissa Estates Abolition Act, 1951 Orissa Act I of1952)-Transfer of Property Act (IV of 1882), s. 54.920HEADNOTE:The  petitioners  obtained oral licenses  for  catching	 andappropriating  fish  from specified sections of	 the  ChilkaLake from its proprietor, the Raja of Parikud, on payment ofheavy  sums  and obtained receipts in  accordance  with	 theprevailing  practice.	This was before the passing  of	 theOrissa	Estates Abolition Act of 1951 by which ownership  ofthe  estate  vested in the State of Orissa.   The  licenses,however,  were	in  respect  of	 years	subsequent  to	suchvesting.  The State of Orissa refused to recognise them	 andwas  seeking  to  reaction  the	 rights	 of  fishery.	 Thepetitioners  contended that it had thereby infringed or	 wasabout  to  infringe  their fundamental	rights	under  Arts.19(1)(f) and 31(1) of the Constitution and claimed that	 thetransactions being sales of future goods, namely, the  fish,the  Act  which was confined to immovable  property  had  noapplication.  Held, that the right sought to be acquired  bythe  petitioners  by  their several  purchases	was  not  inrespect	 of  any future goods as claimed by them but  was  alicense	 to enter on the land coupled with a grant to  catchand carry away the fish, in other words, a profit a  prendrewhich  is  immovable  property within  the  meaning  of	 theTransfer  of Property Act read with s. 3(25) of the  GeneralClauses Act.  Accordingly s. 54 of the former Act applies.That as the sale of the profit a prendre in the present cagewas valued at more than one hundred rupees and was  effectedwithout writing and registration it contravened s. 54 of theTransfer  of  Property	Act, and so  no	 title	or  interesttherein passed to the petitioners and consequently, they badno fundamental rights to enforce.Firm Chhotabhai Jethabai Patel & Co. v. The State of  MadhyaPradesh,   ([1953]  S.C.R.  476),  distinguished  and	heldinapplicable.That  it  was not necessary in the present  case  to  decidewhether	 the  contract was property within  the	 meaning  ofArts.  19(1)(f)	 and 31(1), but assuming it to	be  so,	 theState has not taken such property away from the	 petitionersor  prevented them from acquiring, holding or  disposing  ofit.  The State merely refuses to recognise the contract	 andrefuses	 to  consider itself bound by it.  That may  give  acause  of  action  for	a  suit	 on  the  contract  but	  nofundamental right arises as the State has not confiscated oracquired  or  taken possession of the contract	as  such  byclaiming any benefits under it.JUDGMENT:ORIGINAL JURISDICTION: Petition No. 286 of 1955.Under Article 32 of the Constitution for the enforcement  ofFundamental Rights.H.Mahapatra and G. C. Mathur, for the petitioners.C.   K. Daphtary, Solicitor-Generalfor India, (Porus A. Mehtaand P. G. Gokhale, with him), for respondent No. 1.9211955.  October 27.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyBOSE  J.-This judgment will also govern Petitions Nos.	287,288,  289  and 304 of 1955.  We will set out  the  facts  inPetition  No.  286  of 1955.  The  others  follow  the	samepattern.The dispute is about fishery rights in the Chilka lake whichis  situate  in	 what was once the estate  of  the  Raja  ofParikud.   This estate vested in the State of  Orissa  underthe  Orissa  Estates Abolition Act, 1951 (Orissa  Act  I  of1952)  on  24-9-1953  and has now ceased  to  exist  in	 itsoriginal form.	The Act came into force on 9-2-1952.The  further facts are set out in paragraphs 2 and 3 of	 thepetition in the following terms:"That the petitioners carry on the business of catching	 andselling	 fish particularly. from fisheries within  the	saidlake.That  long before the vesting of the estate the	 petitionershad  entered  into contracts with the exproprietor  and	 hadobtained from the latter, on payment of heavy sums, licencesfor  catching  and  appropriating  all	the  fish  from	 thefisheries detailed in the schedule given in the accompanyingaffidavit   and	 had  ,obtained	 receipts  on	payment	  inaccordance with the prevailing practice".The  lake  is  divided into sections and  this	petition  isconcerned with four of them.  The licenses relating to	themwere purchased as follows:I   On 30-7-50 for rights in GerasarPrawn for		 1955-562.   On 2-8-50 for rights in JayamalPrawn for		 1955-563.   On 18-9-51 for rights in SolakudiPrawn for		 1955-564.   On 6-5-52 for rights in JayamalChungudi for		 (1956-57(1957-58(1958-59It  will  be  seen that though the  licenses  were  acquiredbefore the estate vested in the State of Orissa they922were for future years, all after the date of vesting.The State of Orissa refused to recognise these licenses	 andwere  about  to re-auction the rights when  the	 petitionersfiled the present petition seeking writs under article 32 onthe  ground  that their fundamental  rights  under  articles19(1)(f) and 31 (I) were, or were about to be, infringed.The first question that we have to determine is whether	 thepetitioners  acquired any rights or interests in  "property"by their several "purchases", as articles 19(1)(f) and 31(1)are dependent on that.In   their   petition  the  petitioners	  claim	  that	 thetransactions were sales of future goods, namely of the ,fishin these sections of the lake, and that as fish is  moveableproperty Orissa Act I of 1952 is not attracted as that, Act-is  confined  to immoveable I property. ,We agree  with	 thelearned Solicitor-General that if this is the basis of theirright, then their petition under article 32 is	misconceivedbecause	 until any fish is actually caught  the	 petitionerswould not acquire any property in it.There can be no doubt that the lake is immoveable  -propertyand  that it formed part of the Raja's estate.	As  such  itvested	in  the State of Orissa when  the  notification	 wasissued	under the Act and with it vested the right that	 allowners	of  land have, to bar access to their land  and	 theright to regulate, control and sell the fisheries on it.  Ifthe petitioners' rights are no more than the right to obtainfuture	goods  under the Sale of Goods Act, then that  is  apurely personal right arising out of a contract to which theState  of Orissa is not a party and in, any event a  refusalto  perform the contract that gives rise to that  right	 mayamount	to a breach of contract but cannot be regarded as  abreach of any fundamental right.  But though that is how thematter	is  put in the petition we do not think	 that  is  aproper approach to this case.The  facts disclosed in paragraph 3 of the petition make  itclear  that what was sold was the right to catch  and  carryaway fish in specific sections of the lake over a  specifiedfuture period.	That amounts to923a license to enter on the land coupled with a grant to catchand  carry away the fish, that is to say, it is a  profit  aprendre:  see  11  Halsbury's  Laws  of	 England,  (HailshamEdition), pages 382 and 383.  In England this is regarded asan  interest  in land (11 Halsbury's Laws of  England,	page387)  because it is a right to take some profit of the	soilfor the use of the owner of the right (page 382).  In  Indiait is regarded as a benefit that arises out of the land	 andas such is immoveable property.Section	  3  (26)  of  the  General  Clauses   Act   defines"immoveable  property" as including benefits that arise	 outof  the land.  The Transfer of Property Act does not  definethe  term  except to say that immoveable property  does	 notinclude standing timber, growing crops or grass.  As fish donot  come under that category the definition in the  GeneralClauses Act applies and as a profit a prendre is regarded asa  benefit  arising  out  of land  it  follows	that  it  isimmoveable  property within the meaning of the	Transfer  ofProperty Act.Now  a	"sale"	is defined as a	 transfer  of  ownership  inexchange  for  a  price paid or promised.   As	a  profit  aprendre	 is immoveable property and as in this case  it	 waspurchased for a price that was paid it requires writing	 andregistration  because  of  section 54  of  the	Transfer  ofProperty Act.  If a profit a prendre is regarded as tangibleimmoveable  property, then the "property" in this  case	 wasover  Rs.  100	in  value.  If	it  is	intangible,  then  aregistered instrument would be necessary whatever the value.The  "sales"  in  this case were  oral:	 there	was  neitherwriting	  nor  registration.   That  being  the	 case,	 thetransactions passed no title or interest and accordingly thepetitioners have no fundamental right that they can enforce.It is necessary to advert to Firm Chhotabhai Jethabai  Patel&  Co.	v.  The State of Madhya Pradesh(1)  and	 explain  itbecause	 it was held there that a right to  "pluck,  collectand carry away" tendu leaves does not give the owner of	 theright any proprietary interest in the land and so that	sortof right was not an "en-(1)  [1963] S.C.R. 476.117924cumbrance"   within  the  meaning  of  the  Madhya   PradeshAbolition of Proprietary Rights Act.  But the contract therewas to "pluck, collect and carry away" the leaves.  The onlykind  of  leaves that can be "plucked" are  those  that	 aregrowing	 on  trees and it is evident that there	 must  be  afresh crop of leaves at periodic intervals.  That would makeit  a growing crop and a growing crop is expressly  exemptedfrom the definition of "immoveable property" in the Transferof Property Act.  That case is distinguishable and does	 notapply here.It was then argued that a contract is "property' within	 themeaning of articles 19(1)(f) and 31(1).	 Again, we need	 notdecide	this because even if it be assumed that it  is	thatkind  of  property  the State of Orissa has  not  taken	 thepetitioners'  contract	away I from them or  prevented	themfrom "acquiring, holding or disposing" of it.  They are freeto sue on it or to assign it if they want.  The State merelysays,  as any other person might say: "I was not a party  tothat contract.	Neither its rights nor its liabilities	havedevolved on me and I refuse to recognise it or to assume theobligations  of either contracting party".  If the State  iswrong  in its attitude that may give rise to a suit  againstit  for damages for breach of contract or possibly,  (thoughwe  do	not say it would), to a right to  sue  for  specificperformance;  but  no question under articles  19(1)(f)	 and31(1)  can  arise because the State has not  confiscated  oracquired or taken possession of the contract as such.  If ithad  it would have claimed the benefits under it.  It  wouldhave  taken the money that the petitioners paid to the	Rajafrom   the  Raja  or  demanded	it  over  again	  from	 thepetitioners.   But it is not doing that.  It simply  refusesto recognise the existence of the contract.The petition fails and is dismissed with costs.925