PETITIONER:SRI BARU RAM	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHRIMATI PRASANNI & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/09/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR   93		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1)1403 CITATOR INFO : R	    1964 SC1545	 (9) O	    1965 SC 669	 (9) RF	    1968 SC1500	 (4) F	    1974 SC 951	 (6) R	    1979 SC1148	 (4) F	    1988 SC1706	 (7)ACT:Election  Petition-Corrupt Practice-Procuring assistance  OfGovernment  servant  by appointing as  Polling	agent-Proof-Nomination  paper, rejection of-Failure to produce  copy  ofelectoral roll -If rejection improper-Representation of	 thePeople	Act,  195I (43 Of 1951), SS. 2(C), 33,	36,  46	 and123(7).HEADNOTE:The first respondent filed an election petition against the1404appellant on the grounds: (i) that he committed the  corruptpractice specified in s. 123(7) Of the Representation of thePeople Act, 195I inasmuch as he had obtained the  assistanceof one P, a member of the armed forces, who had acted as hispolling agent and (ii) that the nomination of one J had beenimproperly   rejected  by returning officer.   The  electiontribunal  held that the corrupt practice was not proved	 butthat  the nomination of J had been improperly  rejected	 andconsequently it declared the election of the appellant to bevoid.  On appeal the High Court held that the nomination  ofJ was not improperly rejected but that the corrupt  practicealleged was established and dismissed the appeal.  The	HighCourt found that P had signed the form a pointing him as theappellant's  polling agent and had presented it	 before	 thepresiding officer, that P was seen at the polling booth	 andthat  the  scribe who wrote this form had also	written	 theform  by which the appellant had appointed  another  pollingagent.	 From these circumstances the- High Court  drew	 theinference that the appellant had appointed P as his  pollingagent  and  had	 in fact signed the form in  token  of	suchappointment.	With  respect  to  the	rejection   of	 thenomination of J the High Court held that J was a voter in  adifferent  constituency and that he had failed to produce  acopy of the electoral roll when he presented the  nominationpaper,	nor was it produced at the time of the	scrutiny  orwithin	the  time given by the returning  officer  and	thatconsequently the nomination was properly rejected.Held, that to establish that the appellant was guilty of thecorrupt practice charged it was not sufficient to show	thatP had acted as his polling agent but it must also be  provedthat  the  appellant had appointed P as his  polling  agent.This  fact the first respondent had failed to prove  by	 anylegal  evidence.  The facts and circumstances found  by	 theHigh  Court did not inevitably lead to the  conclusion	thatthe  appellant	had  signed  the  form	and  hence  such  aninference could not be drawn.Held,  further, that the nomination of J was not  improperlyrejected.   Where a candidate is an elector of	a  differentconstituency  he  has  to  prove that  fact  in	 the  mannerprescribed  by s. 33(5) by the production of a copy  of	 theelectoral roll of that constituency or of the relevant	partthereof	 or  of	 a certified copy of  the  relevant  entriesthereof.  In the present case there was failure on the	partof J to comply with s. 33(5) and his nomination was properlyrejected  under s. 36(2)(b).  The failure to comply with  s.33(5) is not a defect of an unsubstantial character so as toattract	 the  application  Of s. 36(4).	  When	the  statuterequires  specific facts to be proved in a specific way	 andit also provides for the consequences of non-compliance withthe  said requirement the application of the penalty  clausecannot	be resisted on the ground that such  application  isbased on a technical approach.jagan Nath v. jaswant Singh, [1954] S.C.R. 892; Rattan1405Anmol Singh v. Atma Ram, [1955] S.C.R. 481 and Pratap Singhv.   Shri Krishna Gupta, A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 140, referred to.Mohan  Reddy v. Neelagiri Muralidhar Rao, A.I.R.  1958	A.P.485, not approved.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.  P  409  of1958.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedMay  13,  1958, of the Punjab High Court  at  Chandigarh  inFirst Appeal from Order No. 24 of 1958.C.   B. Aggarwala and Naunit Lal, for the appellant.H.   S. Doabia, K. R. Chaudhury and M. K. Ramamurty, for therespondent No. 1.1958.	September  30.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAP.	  J.-This appeal by special leave  has	beenfiled  against	the  decision  of  the	Punjab	High   Courtconfirming  the	 order passed by the  Election	Tribunal  bywhich the appellant's election has been declared to be void.The  appellant	Shri  Baru Ram was  elected  to	 the  PunjabLegislative  Assembly from the Rajaund constituency  in	 theKarnal	District.  Initially seventeen candidates had  filedtheir nomination papers in this constituency.  Out of  thesecandidates, thirteen withdrew and the nomination paper filedby Jai Bhagawan was rejected by the returning officer.	Thatleft three candidates in the field.  They were the appellantBaru  Ram,  Mrs. Prasanni and Harkesh, respondents 1  and  2respectively.  The polling took place on March 14, 1957, andthe  result was declared the next day.	Since the  appellanthad secured the largest number of votes he was declared dulyelected.  Soon thereafter Mrs. Prasanni, respondent 1, filedan election petition in which she alleged that the appellanthad  committed	several	 corrupt  practices  and  claimed  adeclaration  that  his	election was  void.   The  appellantdenied	all  the  allegations  made  by	 respondent  1.	 Theelection  tribunal first framed six preliminary	 issues	 andafter  they were decided, it -raised twenty-nine  issues  onthe merits.  The tribunal was not1406satisfied with the evidence adduced by respondent I to proveher   allegations  in  respect	of  the	 corrupt   practicescommitted  by  the  appellant and so  it  recorded  findingsagainst	 respondent  1 on all the issues in  regard  to	 thesaid  corrupt practices.  Respondent I had  also  challengedthe validity of the appellant's election on the	 ground thatthe returning officer had improperly rejected the nominationpaper  of  Jai	Bhagawan.  This point  was  upheld.  by	 theelection  tribunal  with  the result  that  the	 appellant'selection was declared to be void.The  appellant then preferred an appeal to the	Punjab	HighCourt.	 He  urged before the High Court that  the  electiontribunal  was in error in coming to the conclusion that	 thenomination  paper  of  Jai  Bhagawan'  had  been  improperlyrejected.   This contention was accepted by the	 High  Courtand the finding of 'the tribunal on the point was  reversed.Respondent  1  sought to support the order of  the  electiontribunal  on the ground that the tribunal was not  justifiedin  holding that the appellant was not guilty of  a  corruptpractice  under	 s.  123(7)(c).	  This	argument  was	alsoaccepted  by  the  High	 Court and  it	was  held  that	 theappellant  was	in fact guilty of the said  alleged  corruptpractice.  In the result, though the appellant succeeded  ineffectively  challenging  the only finding recorded  by	 thetribunal  against  him, his appeal was not  allowed  becauseanother finding which was made by the tribunal in favour  ofthe appellant was also reversed by the High Court.  That  iswhy   the  order  passed  by  the  tribunal  declaring	 theappellant's  election to be void was confirmed though  on  adifferent  ground.   It is this order  which  is  challengedbefore	us by Mr. Aggarwal on behalf of, the  appellant	 andboth the points decided by the High Court are raised  beforeus by the parties.At the hearing of the appeal Mr. Doabia raised a preliminaryobjection.   He	 contends that the present appeal  has	beenpreferred beyond time and should be rejected on that  groundalone.	 The judgment under appeal was delivered on May	 13,1958, and the petition for leave to appeal under Art. 136 ofthe Constitution		     1407has  been  filed in this Court on September 2, 1958.  It  iscommon ground that the appellant had appliedfor	 leave	 tothe Punjab High Court on June 9, 1958,and his  applicationwas dismissed on August 22, 1958.If  the time occupied	bythe appellants application for leave is taken into  account,his appeal would be in time; on the other hand, if the	saidperiod	is not taken into account, his application would  bebeyond	time.  Mr. Doabia argues that the proceedings  takenon an election petition are not civil proceedings and so  anapplication for leave under Art. 133 of the Constitution wasincompetent;  the  time taken in the disposal  of  the	saidapplication  cannot  therefore	be  taken  into	 account  incomputing the period of limitation.  On the other hand,	 Mr.Aggarwal urges that s. 116A (2) of the Representation of thePeople	Act  (43  of  1951)  (hereinafter  called  the	Act)specifically  provides	that the High Court, in	 hearing  anappeal	 presented  to	it  shall  have	 the  same   powers,jurisdiction  and  authority and follow the  same  procedurewith respect to the said appeal as if it were an appeal froman  original decree passed by a civil court situated  withinthe  local limits of its civil appellate jurisdiction.	 Theresult	of  this  provision is to  assimilate  the  electionproceedings coming before the High Court in appeal to  civilproceedings as contemplated by Art. 133 of the	Constitutionand  so,  according  to him, it was not	 only  open  to	 theappellant   but	 it  was  obligatory  on  him  to  make	  anapplication  for  leave to the Punjab High Court  under	 thesaid  article.	 That is why the time occupied by  the	saidproceedings  in	 the Punjab High Court must be	excluded  indeciding  the question of limitation.  We do not propose  todeal  with  the	 merits of these  contentions.	 It  is	 notseriously  disputed by Mr. Doabia that parties aggrieved  byorders passed by High Courts in appeals under s. 116A of theAct  generally	apply for leave under Art. 133 and  in	factsuch  applications  are entertained and	 considered  on	 themerits	by them.  It is true that Mr. Doabia's	argument  isthat  this  practice is erroneous and that Art. 133  has  noapplication  to	 the appellate decision of  the	 High  Courtunder s. 116A1791408of the Act.  Assuming that Mr. Doabia is right, it is  clearthat the appellant has merely followed the general  practicein this matter when he applied for leave to the Punjab	HighCourt; his application was   entertained,  considered on themerits	and  rejected  by  the	High  Court.   Under   thesecircumstances  we think	 that even if we were to  hold	thatArt.  133 has no application, we would	unhesitatingly	haveexcused	 the delay made in the presentation of	the  appeal;and so we do not think we can throw out the appeal in limineon  the ground of limitation.  If necessary we would  excusethe  delay  alleged  to have been made	in  presenting	thisappeal.On the merits, Mr. Aggarwal contends that the finding of theHigh  Court  that  the appellant  has  committed  a  corruptpractice  under	 s.  123(7)(c)	is  not	 supported  by	 anyevidence.   Before  dealing with this argument it  would  berelevant  to  consider	the legal position  in	the  matter.Corrupt	 practice as defined in s. 2(c) of the Act  means  "any  of	 the  practices	 specified  in	s.  123	 ".  Section123(7)(c)   provides  inter  alia  that	 the  obtaining	  orprocuring or abetting or attempting to obtain or procure  bya candidate any assistance other than giving of vote for thefurtherance  of the prospects of that  candidate's  electionfrom any person in the service of the Government and who  isa  member  of the armed forces of the Union,  is  a  corruptpractice.   The	 case against the appellant as	set  out  byrespondent 1 in her election petition on this point is	thatthe appellant secured the assistance of Puran Singh who is amember	of  the armed forces of the Union.  It	was  allegedthat  Puran Singh " actively canvassed for the appellant  onMarch 11th to 13th, 1957, in his village and so much so thathe subsequently served as his polling agent at polling boothNo.  15	 at  village Kotra on March 14,	 1957  ".  Both	 thetribunal  and the High Court are agreed in holding  that  ithad not been proved that Puran Singh actively canvassed	 forthe appellant on March 11th to 13th as alleged by respondent1.  They  have,	 however, differed on  the  question  as  towhether	 the  appellant	 had appointed Puran  Singh  as	 hispolling agent for the1409polling	 booth in question.  It would thus be seen that	 thepoint  which  falls for our decision in the  present  appeallies within a very narrow compass.  Did the appellant securethe  assistance	 of  Puran Singh by appointing	him  as	 hispolling agent ? Going back to s. 123, explanation (2) to thesaid  section provides that " for the purpose of cl.  (7)  aperson shall be' deemed to assist in the furtherance of	 theprospects  of  a  candidate for election if he	acts  as  anelection agent or polling agent or a counting agent of	thatcandidate  ". In other words, the effect of explanation	 (2)is  that  once	it is shown that Puran Singh  had  acted  aspolling	 agent	of the appellant, it would follow  that	 theappellant   had	 committed  a  corrupt	practice  under	  s.123(7)(c).  But it is important to bear in mind that  beforesuch  a conclusion is drawn the provisions of s. 46  of	 theAct  must  be taken into account.  Section 46  authorises  acontesting  candidate  to appoint in the  prescribed  mannersuch number of agents and relief agents as may be prescribedto  act as polling agents of such candidate at each  pollingstation	 provided  under s. 25 or at the place	fixed  undersubs.  (1)  of s. 29 for the poll.  There can  be  no  doubtthat,  when  explanation (2) to s. 123 refers  to  a  personacting	as a polling agent of a candidate,  it	contemplatesthe  action  of the polling agent who is duly  appointed  inthat behalf by the candidate under s. 46. It is only when itis shown that a person has been appointed a polling agent bythe candidate and has in consequence acted as such agent forthe  said  candidate that explanation (2)  would  come	intooperation.   If, without being appointed as a polling  agentby   the  candidate,  a	 person	 fraudulently,	or   withoutauthority,  manages to act as the polling agent of the	saidcandidate, explanation (2) would not apply.  That being	 thetrue  legal  position the short point which arises  for	 ourdecision is whether the appellant had appointed Puran  Singhas  his polling agent and whether Puran Singh acted as	suchpolling agent at the polling booth No. 15 at Kotra.What  then  are the facts held proved by the High  Court  insupport of its conclusion against the appellant1410under  s.  123(7)(c) ? The first point which  impressed	 theHigh  Court  is	 in  respect of the  writing  by  which	 theappellant  is alleged to have appointed Puran Singh  as	 hispolling	 agent.	  The  printed	prescribed  forms  were	 notavailable  to  the candidates and so they had  to  copy	 theprescribed form for the purpose of appointing their  pollingagents.	  This position is not disputed.  The form by  whichPuran	Singh  is  alleged  to	have  been   appointed	 theappellant's polling agent contains a glaring mistake in thatwhile reciting that the polling agent agreed to act as	suchpolling	 agent	the  form  says " I agree  to  act  as	suchfollowing  agent " (P.	W. 48/1).  The same glaring  mistakeis to be found in the form by which the appellant admittedlyappointed Pal Chand to act as his polling agent at the	samepolling booth.	The High Court thought that the identity  ofthis  glaring  mistake in both the forms  coupled  with	 thesimilarity of the handwriting of the rest of the writing  inthem showed that the two forms must have been written by thesame  scribe.	This  is a finding of fact  and	 it  may  beaccepted  as  correct for the purpose of our  decision.	  Itwould,	however,  be relevant to add that it is not  at	 allclear  from  the record that the same scribe  may  not	havewritten	 similar forms for other candidates as well.   Thereis no evidence to show that the scribe who made this glaringmistake	 had  been  employed  as  his  own  scribe  by	 theappellant.The High Court was also disposed to take the view that PuranSingh  in fact had acted as the polling agent on the day  ofthe  election at the said polling booth.  Respondent  1	 hadexamined  herself  in support of this plea and	Banwari	 Lalwhom  she  examined  supported	her  in	 that  behalf.	 Thetribunal  was  not impressed by the evidence  of  these	 twowitnesses; and it has given reasons for not accepting  theirevidence  as  true  or	reliable.   It	is  unnecessary	  toemphasize  that, in dealing with an appeal under s. 116A  ofthe  Act, High Courts should normally attach  importance  tothe findings of fact recorded by the tribunal when the	saidfindings  rest solely on the appreciation of oral  evidence.The judgment of the High Court does not show that1411the  High Court definitely accepted the evidence of the	 twowitnesses as reliable; in dealing with the question the HighCourt  has  referred  to  this	evidence  without  expresslystating whether the evidence was accepted or not; but it maybe  assumed that the High Court was disposed to accept	thatevidence.  In this connection, we would like to add that  itis difficult to understand why the High Court did not acceptthe  criticism	made  by  the  tribunal	 against  these	 twowitnesses.   If	 we  consider  the  verifications  made	  byrespondent  I in regard to the material allegations on	thispoint both in her petition and in her replication, it  wouldappear	that she had made them on information  received	 andnot as a result of personal knowledge; that being so, it  isnot  easy  to accept her present claim that  she  saw  PuranSingh  working	as  polling  agent;  but  apart	 from	thisconsideration,	the  evidence  of  respondent  1,  even	  ifbelieved,  does not show that Puran Singh was working  as  apolling	 agent	of  the appellant ;  and  the  statement  ofBanwari Lal that Puran Singh was working as the	 appellant'spolling	 agent	loses  much  of its force  in  view  of	 hisadmission that he had no knowledge that Puran Singh had beenappointed  by the appellant as his polling agent.  Even	 so,we  may	 assume, though not without hesitation,	 that  PuranSingh  did  act as appellant's polling agent as	 alleged  byrespondent 1.in dealing with this question the High Court appears to havebeen considerably influenced by the statement made by  JangiRam  whom  the	appellant  had	examined.   In	his   cross-examination, Jangi Ram stated that Jagtu and Pal Chand	werethe  agents of Shri Baru Ram, but he added that Puran  Singhwas not at the polling booth.  It may be mentioned that	 theappellant's case was that he had appointed only one  pollingagent  at Kotra; and this allegation, according to the	HighCourt, was disproved by the statement of Jangi Ram  inasmuchas  he	referred  to  two polling  agents  working  for	 theappellant.  In considering the effect of this statement, theHigh  Court  has failed to take into  account  the  positivestatement  of  the witness that Puran Singh was not  at	 thepolling1412station at all.	 The evidence of the witness may be rejectedif  it appears to be unreliable; but if it is  accepted,  itwould not be fair to accept it only in part and to hold thattwo  polling agents had been appointed by the appellant	 oneof whom was Puran Singh.  There is another serious infirmityin the inference -drawn by the High Court from the statementof  Jangi Ram ; that is that Jagtu to whom the	witness	 hasreferred as a polling agent of the appellant appears in factto  have acted as a polling agent of Harkesh, respondent  2.Jhandu, another witness examined by the appellant has statedso  on	oath and his statement has not	been  challenged  incross-examination.  Thus, reading the evidence of Jhandu andJangi  Ram, it would be clear that Jangi Ram was right	whenhe said that Jagtu was acting as a polling agent but he	 waswrong  when he thought that Jagtu was the polling  agent  ofthe appellant.	If the attention of the High Court had	beendrawn to the unchallenged statement of Jhandu on this point,it  would probably not have drawn the inference	 that  JangiRam's  evidence supports the case of respondent I about	 theappointment of Puran Singh as the appellant's polling agent.The next' circumstance on which reliance has been placed  inthe  judgment  of  the High Court is that  Puran  Singh	 hassigned	the  prescribed form appointing him as	the  pollingagent  and  he	must  have presented  it  to  the  returningofficer.   The	prescribed form requires  that	a  candidateappointing  his polling agent and the polling agent  himselfshould	sign the first part of the form.  Then	the  pollingagent is required to take the form to the returning officer,sign  in  token of his agreeing to work as a  polling  agentbefore	the  said officer and present it to him.   The	HighCourt  has found that Puran Singh must have signed the	formand  presented	it  as required by  law.   Puran  Singh	 wasexamined by respondent 1; but when he gave evidence, he	 wasallowed	 to be treated as hostile and cross-examined by	 hercounsel.   Puran  Singh	 denied that he	 had  acted  as	 theappellant's  polling agent and that he had signed  the	formand  presented	it to the returning officer.   It,  however,appears that Chand		     1413Jamadar	 to  whose  platoon Puran  Singh  is  attached	gaveevidence  that the signature of Puran Singh on the  form  inquestion  (P.W. 48/1) appeared to be like the signatures  onacquittance rolls which had been admittedly made by him.  Onthe same question hand writing experts were examined by boththe parties.  Mr. Om Parkas was examined by respondent I andhe  stated that he had compared the admitted  signatures  ofPuran Singh with the disputed signature and had come to	 theconclusion  that  Puran Singh must have	 made  the  disputedsignature.  On the other hand, Mr. Kapur whom the  appellantexamined gave a contrary opinion.  The tribunal thought thatin  view  of  this  conflicting evidence  it  would  not  bejustified  in finding that Puran Singh had signed the  form.The High Court has taken a contrary view.  Mr. Aggarwal	 forthe  appellant contends that the High Court was in error  inreversing the finding of the tribunal on this point.   Theremay  be	 some force in this contention ; but we	 propose  todeal  with this appeal on the basis that the finding of	 theHigh Court on this question is right.  The position thus  isthat,  according to the High Court, Puran Singh	 signed	 theform  appointing him as the appellant's agent and  presentedit before the officer.	Puran Singh was seen at the  pollingbooth  and  the scribe who wrote the form in  question	alsowrote the form by which the appellant appointed Pal Singh ashis polling agent at the same booth.  The High Court thoughtthat  from  these circumstances it would  be  legitimate  toinfer  that the appellant had appointed Puran Singh  as	 hispolling	 agent and had in fact signed the form in  token  ofthe said appointment.  It is the correctness of this findingwhich is seriously disputed by Mr. Aggarwal before us.It  is significant that from the start the parties  were  atissue  on  the question as to whether Puran Singh  had	beenappointed  by  the appellant as his polling  agent;  and  sorespondent 1 must have known that she had to prove the	saidappointment  in order to obtain a finding in her  favour  onissue  29 under s. 123 (7)(c) of the Act.  Respondent  I  infact led evidence to prove the signature of Puran Singh	 butno attempt1414was  made by her to prove the signature of the appellant  onthe  said form.	 The appellant had specifically denied	thathe  had appointed Puran Singh as his polling agent and	whenhe  stepped into the witness  box he stated on oath that hehad  not  signed  any  form in	that  behalf.	Under  thesecircumstances, it was clearly necessary for respondent I  toexamine	  competent  witnesses	to  prove  the	 appellant'ssignature  on  the form.  It is true  that  the	 appellant'ssignature on the form appears to have been overwritten,	 butit  is	only the expert who could have	stated	whether	 theoverwriting  in question made it impossible to	compare	 thesaid   signature  with	the  admitted  signatures   of	 theappellant.  It appears that after the whole of the  evidencewas  recorded, respondent woke up to this infirmity  in	 hercase  and applied to the tribunal for permission to  examinean  expert  in that behalf.  This application  was  made  onFebruary  6,  1958; and the only explanation given  for	 thedelay  in  making  it was that it was  after  the  appellantdenied his signature on oath that respondent I realized	 theneed  for examining an expert.	The tribunal  rejected	thisapplication and we think rightly.  In its order the tribunalhas  pointed  out  that	 respondent  I	had  been  given  anopportunity  to	 examine  an expert and if  she	 wanted	 herexpert	to  give evidence on the alleged  signature  of	 theappellant  her	counsel	 should	 have  asked  him   relevantquestions when he was in the witness box.  Thus the positionis  that there is no evidence on the record to	support	 thecase of respondent I that the said alleged signature has  infact been made by the appellant.  The only relevant evidenceon the record is the statement of the appellant on oath thathe had not signed the form in question.Mr. Doabia fairly conceded that there was no legal  evidenceon  this  point; but his argument was that  from  the  otherfindings  of  fact recorded by the High Court  it  would  belegitimate  to	infer that the appellant had made  the	saidsignature.   In	 our  opinion  this  contention	 is   whollyuntenable.   It	 must be borne in mind that  the  allegationagainst	 the  appellant is that he has committed  a  corruptpractice and a finding1415against him on the point would involve serious consequences.In  such a case, it would be difficult to hold	that  merelyfrom  the  findings recorded by the High Court it  would  belegitimate  to infer that the appellant had signed the	formand had in fact appointed Puran Singh as his polling  agent.Mr. Doabia argues that it is not always absolutely necessaryto  examine  an expert or to lead other	 evidence  to  provehandwriting.   It would be possible and legal, he  contends,to  prove  the handwriting of a person	from  circumstantialevidence.   Section 67 of the Indian Evidence  Act  providesinter alia that if a document is alleged to be signed by anyperson	 the  signature	 must  be  proved  to  be   in	 hishandwriting.   Sections	 45  and 47 of the said	 Act  (I  of1872),	prescribe the method in which such signature can  beproved.	 Under s. 45, the opinion of the handwriting expertsis  relevant  while under s. 47 the opinion  of	 any  personacquainted with the handwriting of the person who is allegedto have signed the document is admissible.  The	 explanationto  the	 section explains when a person can be	said  to  beacquainted  with the handwriting of another  person.   Thus,there can be no doubt as to the manner in which the  allegedsignature  of  the  appellant could  and  should  have	beenproved;	 but  even  assuming  that  the	 signature  of	 theappellant can be legally held to be proved on circumstantialevidence  the  principle which governs the  appreciation  ofsuch circumstantial evidence in cases of this kind cannot beignored.   It  is only if the court is	satisfied  that	 thecircumstantial evidence irresistibly leads to the  inferencethat the appellant must have signed the form that the  courtcan  legitimately reach such a conclusion.  In our  opinion,it is impossible to accede to Mr. Doabia's argument that thefacts  hold proved in the High Court inevitably lead to	 itsfinal  conclusion that the appellant had in fact signed	 theform.  It is clear that in reaching this conclusion the HighCourt did not properly appreciate the fact that there was nolegal  evidence on the point and that the other facts  foundby it cannot even reasonably support the1801416case  for  respondent  1. We must  accordingly	reverse	 thefinding	 of the, High Court and hold that respondent  I	 hasfailed	to prove that the appellant had committed a  corruptpractice under s. 123(7)(c) of the Act.This  finding,	however,  does not finally  dispose  of	 theappeal	because Mr. Doabia contends that the High Court	 wasin  error  in reversing the tribunal's conclusion  that	 thenomination  paper  of  Jai  Bhagawan  had  been	  improperlyrejected.  Mr. Aggarwal, however, argues that it is not opento respondent I to challenge the correctness of the  findingof  the	 High  Court  on this  point.	In  support  of	 hisobjection,  Mr. Aggarwal has referred us to the decision  ofthis Court in Vashist Narain Sharma v. Dev Chandra (1).	  Inthis case, when the respondent, having failed on the findingrecorded  by the tribunal in his favour, attempted to  arguethat he could support the decision of the tribunal on  othergrounds	 which had been found against him, this	 Court	holdthat  he  was not entitled to do so.  The provision  of	 theCode  of  Civil Procedure which permits	 the  respondent  toadopt such a course, it was observed, has no application  toan  appeal filed by special leave under Art. 136.  "We	haveno appeal before us on behalf of the respondent ",  observedGhulam Hasan J. "  and we are unable to allow  that questionto be reagitated ". Mr. Doabia challenges the correctness ofthese  observations.  He relies on s. 116A of the Act  whichempowers  the  High  Court  to	exercise  its  jurisdiction,authority  and power, and to follow the same  procedure,  aswould  apply to appeals preferred against  original  decreespassed by a civil court within the local limits of its civilappellate  jurisdiction.   There  is no doubt  that,  in  anordinary  civil appeal, the respondent would be entitled  tosupport the decree under appeal on grounds other than  thosefound  by the trial court in his favour.  Order 41, rule  22of the Code of Civil Procedure, which permits the respondentto file crossobjections recognize the respondent's right  tosupport the decree on any of the grounds decided against himby the court below.  In the present case no appeal(1)[1955] 1 S.C.R. 509.1417could  have been preferred by respondent I because  she	 hadsucceeded in obtaining the declaration that the	 appellant'selection was void and it should therefore be open to her  tosupport the final conclusion of the High Court by contendingthat  the  other finding recorded by the  High	Court  whichwould  go  to the root of the matter  is  erroneous.   Primafacie there appears to be some force in this contention; butwe  do	not think it necessary to decide this point  in	 thepresent	 appeal.   Mr.	Aggarwal's  objection  assumes	thatrespondent  I should have preferred a petition	for  specialleave to appeal against the finding of the High Court on theissue  in question; if that be so, the application  made  byher  for leave to urge additional grounds can  be  convertedinto a petition for special leave to appeal against the saidfinding,  and  the  delay made in filing  the  same  can  becondoned.   As	in  the case of	 the  preliminary  objectionraised	by respondent 1 against the appellant on the  groundof limitation, so in the case of the objection raised by theappellant  against  respondent I in this  matter,  we  wouldproceed on the basis that we have condoned the delay made byrespondent  1 in preferring her petition to this  Court	 forleave  to challenge the finding of the High Court  that	 thenomination form of Jai Bhagawan had been properly  rejected.That  is why we have allowed Mr. Doabia to argue this  pointbefore us.  We may add that the two points of law raised  bythe respective objections of both the parties may have to beconsidered by a larger Bench on a suitable occasion.On  the	 merits,  Mr. Doabia's case is	that  the  returningofficer	 was  not  justified  in  rejecting  Jai  Bhagawan'snomination under s. 36(2)(b) of the Act.  The facts on whichthis contention is raised are no longer in dispute.  Mr. JaiBhagawan who presented his nomination paper to the returningofficer	 on January 29, 1956, was admittedly not an  electorin  the constituency of Rajaund in the District	 of  Karnal.It  is alleged that he was a voter in another  constituency.When his nomination paper was presented, he did not  producea copy of the electoral roll of the said constituency or  ofthe relevant part thereof or a certified copy of the1418relevant entries in the said roll; nor did he produce any ofthese documents on the first of February which was fixed forscrutiny  of  the  nomination papers.	When  the  returningofficer	 noticed  that the candidate had not   produced	 therelevant  document, he gave him, at his request,  two  hourstime  to  produce it.  The candidate failed to	produce	 thedocument within the time allowed and thereupon the returningofficer rejected his nomination paper tinder s. 36 (2)(b) ofthe  Act.   It	is  true  that	the  candidate	subsequentlypurported  to produce before the officer his affidavit	thathis  name was entered as a voter in the list of voters	(No.1074,  Constituency No. 6, Karnal Baneket No. 21, Vol.	10),but the returning officer refused to consider the said affi-davit  because he had already rejected his nomination  paperunder  s.  36(2)(b).  Thus the rejection of  the  nominationpaper  was the result of the candidate's failure to  produceany  of	 the  prescribed  documents  before  the   returningofficer.   On  these  facts the question  which	 arises	 fordecision  is whether the returning officer was justified  inrejecting the nomination paper under s. 36(2)(b).Section	 33  of	 the  Act deals	 with  the  presentation  ofnomination  papers  and prescribe--,  the  requirements	 forvalid nomination.  It would be relevant to refer to  sub-ss.(4) and (5) of this section.  Sub-section (4) provides	thaton  the presentation of the nomination paper, the  returningofficer	 shall satisfy himself that the names and  electoralroll numbers of the candidate and his proposer as entered inthe  nomination paper are the same as those entered  in	 theelectoral  roll.  The proviso to this  sub-section  requiresthe returning officer to permit clerical or technical errorsto be corrected.  Under this sub-section it would have	beenopen  to Jai Bhagawan while presenting his nomination  paperto  produce  one  of the prescribed documents  to  show	 hiselectoral  roll	 number	 on the roll  of  his  constituency.However,  his failure to do so does not entail any  penalty.Sub-section  (5)  of  s.  33 deals with	 the  stage  of	 thescrutiny of the nomination papers and it provides that wherea  candidate  is an elector of a different  constituency,  acopy of the electoral1419roll of that constituency or the relevant part thereof or  acertified  copy	 of the relevant entry of such	roll  shall,unless	it  is	filed along with the  nomination  paper,  beproduced  before  the returning officer at the time  of	 thescrutiny.  It is thus clear that when the stage of  scrutinyis  reached the returning officer has to be  satisfied	thatthe candidate is an elector of a different constituency	 andfor that purpose the statute has provided the mode of  proofSection	 36, sub-s. (7) lays down that the certified  copieswhich  are required to be produced under s. 33 (5) shall  beconclusive evidence of the fact that the person referred  toin  the relevant entry is an elector of	 that  constituency.In  other  words, the scheme of the Act appears to  be	thatwhere a candidate is an elector of a different	constituencyhe  has to prove that fact in the manner prescribed and	 theproduction  of	the  prescribed	 copy has  to  be  taken  asconclusive evidence of the said fact.  This requirement	 hadnot  been  complied with by Jai Bhagawan and  the  returningofficer	 thought  that	the  said  non-compliance  with	 theprovisions  of	s.  33(5) justified  him  in  rejecting	 thenomination paper under s. 36(2)(b) of the Act.	The questionis whether this view of the returning officer is right.Section 36 of the Act deals with the scrutiny of nominationsand  the object of its provisions as shown by sub-s. (8)  isto  prepare a list of validly nominated candidates, that  isto  say, candidates whose nominations have been found  validand  to	 affix	it  to the notice  board  of  the  returningofficer.  Sub-section (1) of s. 36 provides that on the datefixed for the scrutiny of nominations each candidate and oneother  person  duly authorized may attend at such  time	 andplace as the returning officer may appoint and the returningofficer	 is required to give them all reasonable  facilitiesfor examining the nomination papers of all candidates  whichhave  been duly delivered.  Sub-section (2) then deals	withthe scrutiny of the nomination papers and provides that	 thereturning  officer shall decide all objections which may  bemade to any nomination and may either on such objection,  oron  his own motion, after such summary -enquiry, if any,  ashe thinks1420necessary,  reject  any	 nomination on any  of	the  groundsmentioned in cls. (a), (b) and (c) of the said	sub-section.It  is obvious that this enquiry must be summary and  cannotbe elaborate or prolonged.  In fact, sub-s. (5) directs thatthe returning officer shall not allow any adjournment of theproceedings except when such proceedings are interrupted  orobstructed  by riots, by open violence or by  causes  beyondhip,  control and the proviso to this sub-section adds	thatin case an objection is made the candidate concerned may  beallowed time to rebut it not later than the next day but onefollowing  the	date fixed for scrutiny, and  the  returningofficer	 shall record his decision on the date to which	 theproceedings have been adjourned.  Sub-section (2) (b)  dealswith cases where there has been a failure to comply with anyof the provisions of s. 33 or s. 34.  There is no doubt thatin  the	 present case there was failure on the part  of	 JaiBhagawan to comply with s. 33(5) and prima facie s. 36(2)(b)seems  to justify the rejection of his nomination  paper  onthat ground.  Section 33(5) requires the candidate to supplythe  prescribed	 copy and s. 36(2)(b) provides that  on	 hisfailure	 to comply with the said requirement his  nominationpaper  is liable to be rejected.  In other words, this is  acase where the statute requires the candidate to produce theprescribed  evidence and provides a penalty for his  failureto do so.  In such a case it is difficult to appreciate	 therelevance  or validity of the argument that the	 requirementof  s. 33(5) is not mandatory but is directory, because	 thestatute itself has made it clear that the failure to  complywith  the  said requirement leads to the  rejection  of	 thenomination  paper.  Whenever the statute requires  a  parti-cular  act to be done in a particular manner and  also	laysdown that failure to comply with the said requirement  leadsto  a specific consequence it would be difficult  to  acceptthe  argument  that  the failure to  comply  with  the	saidrequirement should lead to any other consequence.It  is,	 however,  urged that the  statute  itself  makes  adistinction  between  defects  which are  of  a	 substantialcharacter and those which are not of a substantial1421character.  This argument is based upon the provisions of s.36(4)  of the Act which provides that the returning  officershall  not reject any nomination paper on the ground of	 anydefect	"  which is not of a substantial  character  ".	 Thefailure	 to  produce the requisite copy, it  is	 urged,	 mayamount	to a defect but it is not a defect of a	 substantialcharacter.  We are not impressed by this argument.  There isno  doubt  that	 the essential object  of  the	scrutiny  ofnomination  papers is that the returning officer  should  besatisfied  that the candidate who is not an elector  in	 theconstituency  in  question  is	in  fact  an  elector  of  adifferent  constituency.  The satisfaction of the  returningofficer	  is   thus  the  matter  of  substance	  in   theseproceedings;  and if the statute provides the mode in  whichthe  returning officer has to be satisfied by the  candidateit  is	that mode which the candidate must  adopt.   In	 thepresent	 case  Jai  Bhagawan failed to produce	any  of	 thecopies	prescribed and the returning officer  was  naturallynot  satisfied	that  jai  Bhagawan was	 an  elector  of'  adifferent constituency.	 If that in substance was the resultof  Jai Bhagawan's failure to produce the relevant copy	 theconsequence  prescribed	 by  s.	 36(2)(b)  must	  inevitablyfollow.	  It  is  only if the  returning  officer  had	beensatisfied  that Jai Bhagawan was an elector of	a  differentconstituency  that  his nomination papers  could  have	beenaccepted  as valid.  It is well-settled that  the  statutoryrequirements  of election law have to be strictly  observed.As  observed by Mahajan C. J. who delivered the judgment  ofthis  Court  in Jagan Nath v. Jagwant  Singh(1)	 "......  anelection contest is not an action at law or a suit in equitybut  is a purely statutory proceeding unknown to the  commonlaw and that the court possesses no common law power ".	 Thelearned	 Chief Justice has also added that "...... it  is  asound  principle  of natural justice that the success  of  acandidate  who has won at an election should not be  lightlyinterfered  with and any petition seeking such	interferencemust  strictly conform to the requirements of the  law."  Inthis connection we may usefully refer to another decision ofthis Court in Rattan Anmol(1)[1954] S.C. R. 892, 895, 896.1422Singh  v. Atma Ram (1).	 While dealing with the question  asto  whether  the requirements as to attestation	 were  of  atechnical or of an unsubstantial character, Bose J. observedthat " when the law enjoins the obser vance of a  particularformality, it cannot be disregarded and the substance of thething  must be	there ". We must, therefore, hold  that	 theHigh  Court was right in coming to the conclusion  that	 thenomination  paper of Jai Bhagawan had been validly  rejectedby the returning officer.Mr.  Doabia,  however, contends that the view taken  by	 theHigh  Court  is	 purely technical and  does  not  take	intoaccount	 the substance of the matter.  This approach, it  issaid,  is  inconsistent with the decision of this  Court  inPratap Singh v. Shri Krishna Gupta (1).	 It is true that  inthis  case  Bose J. has disapproved of the tendency  of	 thecourts towards technicalities and has observed that " it  isthe substance that counts and must take precedence over mereform  ". But in order to appreciate the scope and effect  ofthese  observations, it would be necessary to bear  in	mindthe relevant facts and the nature of the point raised beforethe  court for decision in this case.  The  question  raisedwas  whether  the failure of the candidate  to	mention	 hisoccupation as required by r. 9(1)(i) rendered his nominationpaper  invalid	and  it was answered by	 the  court  in	 thenegative.  The question arose under the provisions of the C.P.  and	 Berar	Municipalities	Act  11	 of  1922.   It	  issignificant   that  the	 decision  of  this   Court   restedprincipally  on	 the  provisions of s. 23 of  the  said	 Actaccording to which " Anything done or any proceedings  takenunder  this  Act  shall	 not be	 questioned  on	 account  ofany......... defect or irregularity in affecting the  meritsof  the	 case ". It was held by this Court that	 reading  r.9(1)  (iii)  (c) which directed the supervising	 officer  toexamine nomination papers, in the light of s. 23, the  courthad  to	 see whether the omission to set out  a	 candidate'soccupation can be said to affect the merits of the case	 andon that point there was no doubt that the said failure couldnot possibly affect the merits of the case.  The High  Courthad, however, taken a(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 481, 488.(2) A.I.R. 1956 S.C. 140,141.1423contrary view and it was in reversing this view that Bose J.disapproved  the  purely technical approach adopted  by	 theHigh  Court.  Where, however, the statute requires  specificfacts  to be proved in a specific way and it  also  providesfor  the  consequence  of non- P compliance  with  the	saidrequirement it would be difficult to resist the	 applicationof the penalty clause on the ground that such an applicationis  based on a technical approach.  Indeed it was  preciselythis approach which was adopted by this Court in the case ofRattan Anmol Singh v. Atma Ram (1).Mr.  Doabia  has also relied upon a decision of	 the  AndhraHigh Court in Mohan Reddy v. Neelagiri Muralidhar Rao (2) insupport	 of  his argument that the failure  to	produce	 theprescribed   copy  cannot  justify  the	 rejection  of	 thenomination  paper.   In our opinion this decision  does	 notassist	Mr. Doabia's contention.  In this case it was  urgedbefore	the  High Court that the document  produced  by	 theparty was riot a certified copy as required by s. 33 (5)  ofthe Act.  This argument was based on the assumption that thecertified copy mentioned in s. 33(5) of the Act must satisfythe  test  prescribed by s. 76 of the Indian  Evidence	Act.The  High Court rejected this argument for two reasons.	  Itheld  that the certified copy mentioned ins. 33(5) need	 notnecessarily  satisfy  the test prescribed by s.	 76  of	 theIndian Evidence Act.  Alternatively it	held,	   on	   aconsideration of the relevant statutory provisions, that thedocument in question was in fact and in law a certified copyunder s. 76 of the Indian Evidence Act.	 These points do notarise  for our decision in the present appeal.	Mr.  Doabia,however, relies on certain observations made in the judgmentof  the	 -nigh	Court  and it may  be  conceded	 that  theseobservations  seem  to suggest that according  to  the	HighCourt the provisions of ss. 33(5) and 36(7) do not  precludeproof  by  other  means of the fact that  the  name  of	 thecandidate   is	on  the	 relevant  electoral  roll.    Theseobservations are clearly obiter.  Even so we(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 481, 483.(2)  A.I.R. 1958 Andhra Pradesh 485.1811424would  like to add that they do not correctly represent	 theeffect of the relevant provisions of the Act.The result is the appeal is allowed, the order passed by theHigh  Court is set aside and the election petition filed  byrespondent 1 is dismissed with costs throughout.Appeal allowed.