PETITIONER:KALINDI & OTHERS	Vs.RESPONDENT:TATA LOCOMOTIVE & ENGINEERING CO., LTD.DATE OF JUDGMENT:25/03/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1960 AIR  914		  1960 SCR  (3) 407 CITATOR INFO : F	    1965 SC1392	 (9) RF	    1966 SC1731	 (12) RF	    1972 SC2178	 (16)ACT:Industrial Dispute--Enquiry by management into misconduct ofworkman--Representation by representative of  Union--Whetherworkman entitled to.HEADNOTE:A  workman  against  whom an enquiry is being  held  by	 themanagement has no right to be represented at such enquiry bya  representative of his union, though the employer  in	 hisdiscretion, can and may allow him to be so represented.	  Insuch enquiries fairly simple questions of fact as to whethercertain	 acts of misconduct were committed by a	 workman  ornot fall to be considered and the workman is best suited  toconduct the case.  Ordinarily, in enquiries before  domestictribunals  a person accused of any misconduct  conducts	 hisown  case  and	so it cannot be said  that  in	any  enquiryagainst a workman natural justice demands that he should  berepresented by a representative of his Union.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 101 of 1960.Appeal	by  special leave from the Award  dated	 2nd  March,1959, of the Labour Court, Chotanagpur Division, Ranchi,  inMisc.  Cases Nos. 73,76, 77, 79-82, 84-90 of 1958.N.   C. Chatterjee, A . K. Dutt and B. P. Maheshwari for theappellants.Sohrab	D.  Vimadalal,	S.  N.	Andley,	 J.  B.	 Dadachanji,Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the respondents.1960.  March 25.  The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS  GUPTA, J.-When the management of an industry  holds  anenquiry	 into the charges against a workman for the  purposeof deciding what action if any, should be taken against him,has   the   workman  a	right  to  be	represented   by   arepresentative	of  his Union at the enquiry ? That  is	 theprincipal   question   raised  in  this	 appeal.    The	  14appellants,   all  workmen  in	M/s.   Tata   Locomotive   &Engineering Co., Ltd., Jamshedpur, were dismissed under	 theorders	of  the	 company's management on the  result  of  anenquiry held408against them.  As industrial disputes between these  workmenand  the  company  were	 at that  time	pending	 before	 theIndustrial  Tribunal, Bihar, the company filed	applicationspurporting to be under s. 33 of the Industrial Disputes	 Actpraying	 for approval of the action taken by it against	 theworkmen.   Workmen also filed applications under s.  33A  ofthe Industrial Disputes Act complaining of the action  takenagainst	 them by the company.  The applications of the	com-pany under s. 33 were however ultimately held to have becomeinfructuous  and  the applications under s.  33A  were	onlyconsidered  and	 disposed  of  by  the	Labour	Court.	 Theapplications of these 14 appellants were however  dismissed.Against that order the appellants have preferred this appealafter having obtained special leave for the purpose.The common contention urged on behalf of the appellants	 wasthat  the  enquiry  on the results of which  the  orders  ofdismissal  were	 based was not a proper	 and  valid  enquiryinasmuch  as the workmen were not allowed to be	 representedat  the enquiry by a representative of the Jamshedpur  Unionto  which  these workmen belonged.  It has been	 urged	thatfair  play  demands  that at such  an  enquiry	the  workmanconcerned should have reasonable assistance for	 examinationand  cross-examination of the witnesses and for seeing	thatproper	records	 are  made of the proceeding&  It  has	beenargued that a representative of the workmen's Union is	bestsuited	to give such assistance and in the absence  of	suchassistance the workman does not get a fair chance of  makinghis  case before the Enquiry Officer.  It appears that	whenon June 5, 1953, requests were made on behalf of the severalworkmen	 that they should be allowed to be represented by  arepresentative	of  the	 Jamshedpur  Mazdoor  Union  at	 theenquiry	 to  conduct  the  same	 on  workmen's	behalf,	 themanagement  rejected this request but informed	the  workmenthat they could, if they so desired, be represented by a co-worker	from the workmen's own department at  the  enquiry.,The question which arises therefore is whether this  refusalof the workmen's request to be represented at the409enquiry	 by  a representative of their	Union  vitiated	 theenquiry.Accustomed as we are to the practice in the courts of law toskilful	 handling of witnesses by lawyers specially  trainedin   the  art  of  examination	and  cross  examination	  ofwitnesses,  our	 first inclination is to think that  a	fairenquiry	 demands  that the person accused of an	 act  shouldhave the assistance of some person, who even if not a lawyermay be expected to examine and cross-examine witnesses	witha fair amount of skill.	 We have to remember however in	 thefirst place that these are not enquiries in a court of	law.It  is necessary to remember also that in  these  enquiries,fairly	simple questions of fact as to whether certain	actsof  misconduct were committed by a workman or not only	fallto  be considered, and straightforward questioning  which  aperson	of  fair intelligence and  knowledge  of  conditionsprevailing  in	the  industry  will  be	 able  to  do	willordinarily  help to elicit the truth.  It may  often  happenthat the accused workman will be best suited, and fully ableto  cross-examine the witnesses who have spoken against	 himand to examine witnesses in his favour.It  is helpful to consider in this connection the fact	thatordinarily in enquiries before domestic tribunals the personaccused of any misconduct conducts his own case.  Rules havebeen  framed  by Government as regards the procedure  to  befollowed  in  enquiries	 against their	own  employees.	  Noprovision  is  made in these rules that the  person  againstwhom an enquiry is held may be represented by anybody  else.When  the general practice adopted by domestic tribunals  isthat the person accused conducts his own case, we are unableto  accept an argument that natural justice demands that  inthe  case  of  enquiries into a	 chargesheet  of  misconductagainst	 a workman he should be represented by a  member  ofhis Union.  Besides it is necessary to remember that if	 anyenquiry	 is not other. wise fair, the workman concerned	 canchallenge its validity in an industrial dispute.Our  conclusion therefore is that a workman against whom  anenquiry	 is being held by the management has no right to  berepresented at such enquiry by a410representative of his Union; though of course an employer inhis  discretion	 can  and may allow his	 employee  to  availhimself of such assistance.On behalf of the appellants, Charan Singh, Parmanand and  K.Ganguli, it was urged that the orders of dismissal were	 badinasmuch  as  they  were  based on a  finding  of  guilt  ofmisconduct not mentioned in the charge-sheet.  Each of theseappellants  it appears, was accused in the  charge-sheet  offour different acts of misconducts:-1.   Participating in an illegal strike;2.   Leaving your appointed place of duty;3.   Inciting other employees to strike work;4.   Threatening and intimidating other workers.The  Enquiry Officer found each of them guilty of the  firstthree charges.	He, however, recorded no findings as regardsthe fourth charge but instead found these workmen guilty  ofa  misconduct  not mentioned in the  charge-sheet,  viz.,  "Behaving  in  a riotous and disorderly	manner	by  shoutingslogans on the shop floor ". On behalf of the appellants  itis  urged that as it is not possible to ascertain as to	 howthis finding of guilt as regards misconduct not mentioned inthe  charge-sheet affected the decision of the manager,	 theorder  of dismissal must be set aside.	The  record  howeverdiscloses  three cases in which the manager made  orders  ofdismissal  on  a  finding of guilt of only of  the  acts  ofmisconduct  alleged  in	 these three  charges,	namely,	 (i)participating	in  an-illegal	strike;	 (ii)  leaving	 theappointed place of duty; and (iii) inciting other  employeesto strike work.	 There is no reason to think therefore	thathe  would have discriminated in favour of these	 appellants,Charan Singh, parmanand and K. Ganguli.	 The conclusion thatNecessarily  follows  is  that leaving out  of	account	 themisconduct   not  mentioned  in	 the   charge-sheet,   viz.,"behaving  in a riotous and disorderly manner  by'  shoutingslogans in the shop floor ", the manager would have made theorder  of dismissal.  The fact that this act  of  misconductnot mentioned in the charge-sheet was also mentioned as	 oneof the items on which the order of dismissal was based	doesnot Therefore affect the validity of the order.411The charge-sheet against S. B. Nath accused him of four actsof misconduct:-"1.  Participating in an illegal strike;2.   Leaving your appointed place of duty;3.   Inciting other employees to strike work;4.   Threatening and intimidating other workers."The  relevant portion of the order of dismissal is in  thesewords:-He   has  been	found  guilty  of  the	following  acts	  ofmisconduct:-For  entering the works when not on duty and inciting  otheremployees to strike work.He   is	 therefore  dismissed  from  the  service   of	 thecompany...".It is argued that as he has not been accused in the  charge-sheet  " for entering the Works when not on duty " but	thishad  been  taken  into	consideration  in  deciding  on	 hispunishment  the order is bad.  It has to be noticed  howeverthat  "	 entering  the Works when not on duty  "  is  not  amisconduct under the company's standing orders.It is quite clear that the statement in the dismissal  orderas  regards  "	entering the Works when not on	duty  "	 wasreally	intended to state the manner and occasion  in  whichthe misconduct of " inciting other employees to strike	work"  was	committed.   The  unnecessary  and  indeed  slightlyerroneous mention that he had been found guilty of "enteringthe Works when not on duty " does not justify the conclusionthat  this  fact of ,entering the works when not on  duty  "played	any part in the mind of the punishing  authority  indetermining  his punishment.  A statement in  the  dismissalorder " that he has been found guilty of entering the  Workswhen  not  on duty " as an act of  misconduct  is  obviouslyerroneous.   The act of misconduct of which  this  appellantwas  found guilty was " inciting other employees  to  strikework  " and that is the only misconduct which  weighed	withthe punishing authority.  The contention that the mention inthe dismissal order of " entering the Works when not on duty" as an act of misconduct of which he had412been  found guilty, vitiates the order of  dismissal  cannottherefore be accepted.On  behalf -of the appellant M . R. Ghosh it was urged	thatthe alleged misconduct of " deliberately preventing the	 manin charge of the Compressor in the repair shop from carryingout his duty" of which he is said to have been found  guiltyin  the	 order of dismissal was not alleged in	the  charge-sheet.	 This  is really a misreading of  the  charge-sheet.Against this appellant four acts of misconduct were  allegedin the charge-sheet :-"1.  Participation in an illegal strike;2.   Inciting  other employees in the other sections of	 theAuto Division to strike work;3.  Leaving  your appointed place of duty  or  work  withoutpermission ;4.   Threatening  and intimidating the other workers in	 theRepair Shop."The  dismissal	order  after mentioning that  he  was  foundguilty of the first three charges further states that he wasfound	guilty	 of  the  following  acts   of	 misconduct:"threatening and intimidating the workers in the Repair Shopand  deliberately  preventing  the  man	 in  charge  of	 theCompressor  in the Repair Shop from carrying out his  duty."The  argument is that the charge as set out in	the  charge-sheet does not mention this act of " deliberately preventingthe man in charge of the Compressor in the Repair Shop	fromcarrying  out his duty." This is obviously  erroneous.	 Thecharge-sheet after alleging the four acts of misconduct wenton  to	give particulars of these charges.  As	regards	 thefourth	charge,	 viz., " threatening  and  intimidating	 theother workers in the Repair Shop " the particulars were	 in-thesewords:  "By threatening and intimidating others in	 therepair shop you stopped them from working and also you	tookthe  Compressor	 man  by his hand  and	got  the  Compressorstopped."  The statement in the dismissal order	 as  regardshis  being  quilty  of deliberately preventing	the  man  incharge	of the Compressor in the Repair Shop  from  carryingout  his  duty " has in fact been mentioned in	the  charge-sheet,	though	in slightly different words.   There  is  nosubstance therefore, in the contention that413the  acts  of misconduct on which the  dismissal  order	 wasbased included one not mentioned in the chargesheet.The  four  acts	 of misconduct alleged	in  the	 chargesheetagainst Gurbux Singh were:-1.   Participating in an illegal strike;2.   Leaving your appointed place of duty;3.   Inciting other employees to strike work;4.   Threatening and intimidating other workers.The  Enquiry  Officer's	 report	 found	him  guilty  of	 thefollowing acts:-1.   Participating in an illegal strike;2.   Leaving his place of duty without permission;3.   Inciting other employees to strike work and4.   Threatening  and intimidating Mr. Charan Singh to	stopwork.The manager's order on these is in these words:-" I have gone through the findings of the Enquiry Officer aswell as the proceedings of the Inquiry.	 Though Mr.  GurubuxSingh  created a scene on the 11th June, 1958, and left	 theplace  of  enquiry,  still he was given	 a  chance  and	 theenquiry was held at a later date.Having gone through the evidence recorded against him duringthe  enquiry, I agree with the findings of the C. P. 0.	 Thecharges	 being of a very serious nature, I order that he  bedismissed from the services of the company with effect	fromthe date of the charge-sheet."The formal dismissal order that was drawn up on the basis ofthis  finding  and served on him after stating that  he	 wasfound  guilty of the first three charges stated that he	 wasfound	guilty	 of   threatening   and	  intimidating	 Mr.Chakravarty,  chargeman, who was compelled to stop  work  on21-5-58.   On his behalf it has been urged that	 though	 theenquiry	 officer's  report  says that he  was  guilty  of  "threatening  and  intimidating Charan Singh  "	the  GeneralManager misled himself into thinking that he had  threatenedand intimidated Mr. Chakravarty, Chargeman.  There being  nofinding by the Enquiry Officer that Gurubux Singh was guiltyof threatening and intimidating53414Mr.  Chakravarty,  Chargeman, the General  Manager  was	 notentitled to take such a misconduct into consideration.On  an	examination of the Enquiry Officer's  report  it  ishowever	 obvious  that	there is a  clerical  error  in	 theconcluding  portion of the report in stating the finding  asregards the fourth charge as " threatening and	intimidatingCharan Singh to stop work ". Charan Singh was really one  ofthe   striking	workers	 and  there  was  no  quest-ion	  ofintimidating  him.  It is abundantly clear from	 the  reportthat  the  case that was sought to be made  as	regards	 thefourth charge was that Chakravarty had been intimidated	 andthat this allegation was found proved.	There could not havebeen  and  was	not any allegation  of	Charan	Singh  beingintimidated.   It  is quite clear that the  name  of  CharanSingh  was accidentally mentioned in the concluding  portionof  the	 report	 instead of the	 correct  name	Chakravarty.There  is  no justification for thinking  that	the  GeneralManager who had gone through the evidence and report of	 theEnquiry	 Officer  could possibly have been  misled  by	thisclerical  mistake.  The relevant charge was threatening	 andintimidating   other  workers,	whether	 Charan	  Singh	  orChakravarty was intimidated would not be of any consequence'In  fact  however  the	allegation  against  this  appellantclearly	 was that Chakravarty had been intimidated  by	him.The body of the report shows that that was what the Enquiry-Officer	 found proved.	It is reasonable to think that	thatconclusion and not the wrong statement that Charan Singh wasthreatened  and intimidated which was nobody's case  weighedwith the General Manager in determining the punishment.	  Inour  opinion, there is no substance in the contention  urgedon  his	 behalf	 that  the finding  that  Charan  Singh	 wasthreatened  and intimidated as an act of misconduct  insteadof Chakravarty was wrongly relied upon.On  behalf of the appellant S. K. Dhanda it has	 been  urgedthat  in making the dismissal Manager wrongly  thought	thatguilty of all the four acts of misconduct order the Generalhe had been found which were against him in the charge-sheetthough in fact he was415found  guilty  only of three and the fourth charge  was	 notproved.	 The four acts of misconduct alleged in the  charge-sheet were :-(1)  Participation in an illegal strike;(2)  Leaving his place of duty without permission;(3)  Inciting  other employees in the Paint  Shop  PropellerShaft  Section, Rear Axle Section and Press Section  of	 theAuto Division to stop work;(4)  Behaving  in  a  riotous  and  disorderly	manner	 andthreatening and intimidating another coworker.The formal order of dismissal that was drawn up stated	thathe   had  been	found  guilty  of  the	following  acts	  ofmisconduct:-(1)  Participating in an illegal strike;(2)  Leaving his place of duty without permission;(3)  Inciting  other employees in the Paint  Shop  PropellerShaft  Section, Rear Axle Section and Press Section  of	 theAuto   Division'   to  stop  work.(4)  Threatening and intimidating another employee  by	nameMr. T. S. N. Rao, T. No. 6610/60205/1, and stopping him fromdoing his work.He   is	 therefore  dismissed  from  the  service   of	 theCompany......... ".The Enquiry Officer's report states the conclusions  reachedby him thus:-"  From	 the  statement	 of  the  witnesses,  it  has	beenconclusively proved that Mr. Dhanda:(1)  participated in an illegal strike;(2)  left his place of duty without permission;(3)  incited other employees to stop work.It   can  be  said  that  the  charge  of  threatening	 andintimidating has not been proved beyond doubt."If one looks at the formal order of dismissal only it  seemsthat though the charge of threatening and intimidating otheremployees was not proved against him the order of  dismissalwas  partially based on it.  If there was nothing else	thismight be a serious infirmity in the order.  We find  howeverthat  the General Manager recorded his order on	 the  formalReport itself in these words:-416I have gone through the findings of the Enquiry Officer	 andthe  proceedings of the enquiry.  Even though the charge  ofthreatening  and  intimidating other workers  has  not	beenproved	against Mr. Dhanda the other charges are also  of  aserious	 nature.   In the circumstances,  order that  he  bedismissed  from the service of the company with effect	fromthe date of the charge-sheet."This was dated July 3, 1958, and the formal order also bearsthe  same date.	 Reading the two together it is quite  clearthat  the General Manager in passing the order of  dismissalproceeded  on the basis that the charge of  threatening	 andintimidating other employees had not been proved against Mr.Dhanda	but a mistake crept into the formal order  that	 wasdrawn up and among the acts of misconduct mentioned as thoseof  which  Dhanda  had been found guilty and  on  which	 thedismissal  order  was  based the fourth	 charge	 as  regardsthreatening  and  intimidating	other  employees  was	alsomentioned.  It is proper to hold that this was an  accidentsclerical  mistake and that in fact the General	Manager	 didnot  proceed on the wrong basis that Dhanda had	 been  foundguilty on this fourth charge also.  The mere fact that	sucha clerical error appears in the formal order does not affectthe validity of the order in any way.We  have therefore come to the conclusion that the  separatecontentions  pressed oil behalf of seven of  the  appellantsthat   the   Tribunals	below  did  not	  consider   certaininfirmities in the order cannot also be sustained.The   appeal   is   accordingly	 dismissed,   but   in	 thecircumstances we make no order as to costs.Appeal dismissed.417