PETITIONER:STATE OF MADHYA PRADESH & ORS.	Vs.RESPONDENT:SHARDUL SINGHDATE OF JUDGMENT:02/12/1959BENCH:ACT:Constitution  of  India,  Art.	311(1)	--If  the  Authorityempowered  to dismiss should itself initiate or conduct	 theenquiry-Article	 309,  proviso,	 -"Conditions  of  service",meaning of.HEADNOTE:The  Superintendent  of	 Police	 initiated  a	departmentalinquiry	 against  the respondent, who was  a  Sub-Inspector,with  respect  to  certain charges, found  him	guilty,	 andforwarded the report to the Inspector-General of Police, whowas  the authority competent to dismiss him,  for  necessaryaction.	 The Inspector-General sent a copy of the report  tothe  respondent, called upon him to show cause	against	 theproposed    punishment	 of   dismissal,   considered	 hisexplanation,  and  passed  an  order  dismissing  him.	 Theprocedure  followed was in accordance with  Regulations	 228and   229  of  the  Central  Provinces	and   Berar   PoliceRegulations  framed under s. 241 of the Government of  IndiaAct, 1935, corresponding to Art. 309 of the Constitution.On  the	 question whether the Regulations were	ultra  viresbecause, under Art. 311, the authority empowered to  dismiss(in  this  case	 the Inspector-General)	 must  have  himselfinitiated,or conducted the inquiry preceding the dismissal,HELD : Under the proviso to Art. 309, power is conferred  onthe  President of India and the Governor of a State to	makerules  Regulating  the	conditions  of	service	 of  personsappointed to the civil service of the Union or the State, asthe-case  may be, until provision in that behalf is made  byan  Act	 of  the appropriate  Legislature.   'Conditions  ofservice'  means	 all  those conditions	which  regulate	 theholding	 of  a post by a person right from the time  of	 hisappointment till his retirement and even beyond, in  matterslike  pension  etc.,  and includes  rules  relating  to	 thedismissal  of  an  officer.   Article  311  (1)	 confers  anadditional  right  on  the civil servant,  namely,  that  noperson holding a civil post shall be dismissed or removed byan authority subordinate to that by which he was  appointed.But  for that Article rules could have been framed  even  inrespect	 to  these matters under Art. 309.   Article  311(l)however,  does	not,  in terms, provide	 that  the  relevantdisciplinary  inquiry should also be initiated or  conductedby  the	 authority  mentioned in  the  Article.	  Therefore,-rules	could  be  framed under Art.  309  with	 respect  toconditions  of service other than those in Art.	 311(l)	 andhence,	 the   Regulations  were  not	ultra	 vires	 theConstitution. [306 B-E]Pradyat	 Kumar	Bose  V. The Hon'ble the  Chief	 Justice  ofCalcutta High Court, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1331 and P. Balakotaiahv. Union of India, [1958] S.C.R. 1052, followed.North  West Frontier Province v. Suraj Narain Anand,  (1948)L.R. 75 I.A. 343, applied.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE  JURISDICTION : Civil Appeal  No.  2554  of1966.303Appeal	from the judgment and order dated November  4,	1965,of the Madhya Pradesh High Court in Misc.  Petition No. 646of 1964.I.N. Shroff, for the appellants.A.K.  Sen, M. M. Kshatriya and G. S. Chatterjee, for  therespondent.The Judgment of the Court was delivered byHegde J. _ Scope of Art. 311(l) of the Constitution comes upfor  consideration in this appeal by certificate.  The	HighCourt  of  Madhya  Pradesh  has opined	that  the  power  ofdismissal  and	removal	 referred to in Art. 3 1  1  (	1  )implies that the authorities mentioned in that Article	mustalone  initiate	 and  conduct  the  disciplinary  proceedingculminating  in	 the dismissal or removal  of  a  delinquentofficer.The  respondent herein was a Sub-Inspector of Police in	 theState  of  Madhya  Pradesh.   A	 departmental  enquiry	 wasinitiated  against him on the basis of certain	charges,  bythe  Superintendent  of Police, Surguja, on June  24,  1962.After  holding	the  enquiry as prescribed  by	the  CentralProvinces  and Bihar Police Regulations, the  Superintendentof  Police submitted his report to the Inspector-General  ofPolice,	 Madhya Pradesh through Deputy Inspector-General  ofPolice,	 Raipur.  On the basis of the enquiry held  by	him,-the Superintendent of Police concluded that the  respondentwas  guilty  of	 the  charges  levelled	 against  him.	  Herecommended  his dismissal.  After receiving the  report  ofthe  Superintendent of Police, the Inspector General sent  acopy  of the same to the respondent and called upon  him  toshow cause why he should not be dismissed from service.	 Therespondent submitted his explanation.  After considering thesame,	the  Inspector	General	 of  Police  dismissed	 therespondent   from  service  on	November  30,	1963.	 Therespondent's  appeal  to the Government	 against  the  orderdismissing  him	 was rejected.	 Thereafter  the  respondentmoved  the High Court under Art. 226 of the Constitution  toquash  the  order  dismissing  him  by	issuing	 a  writ  ofcertiorari.   The dismissal order was challenged on  variousgrounds.   The High Court rejected all but one of them.	  Itcame  to the conclusion that the Superintendent	 of  Police,Surguja was not competent to initiate or conduct the enquiryheld against the respondent as he had been appointed by	 theInspector-General  of Police.  It was of the view  that	 theenquiry	 in  the case was without the authority of  law	 andagainst	 the,  mandate of Art. 3 1 1 ( 1 ).  It	 accordinglyallowed	 the  writ  petition and  quashed  the	impugn%-,,-'order.	The Superintendent of Police, Surg ja initiated	 andconducted the enquiry against the respondent on the basis ofRegulations  228 and 229 of the Central Provinces and  BiharPolice Regulations.  These 'Regulations are evidently framedon  the	 basis	of S. 241 of the Government  of	 India	Act,1935,a	Provision which. permitted the State Governments  tomake  rules  regulating the recruitment	 and  conditions  ofservice	 of persons appointed to State service.	  Regulation228 says :"In  every  case of dismissal, reduction in rank,  grade  orpay, or withholding of increment for, a period in excess  ofone  year,  a  formal proceeding must be  recorded,  by	 theDistrict  Superintendent  in the  prescribed  form,  settingforth(a)  the charge;(b)  the evidence on which the charge is based;(c)  the defence of the, accused;(d)  the statements of his witnesses (if any).(e) the	 finding of the District Superintendent,  with	thereasons on which it is based;(f)  the  District  Superintendent's  final  order  or	 re-commendation, as the case -may be."Regulation  229 prescribes that in cases where the  DistrictSuperintendent	is not empowered to pass a final  order,  heshould	forward his proposals for the dismissal, removal  orcompulsory retirement of an officer of and above the rank ofSub-Inspector  to the proper authority through the  DistrictMagistrate, except in cases where an officer is not  servingin a district.There  is no dispute that the Superintendent of	 Police	 hadcomplied  with the requirements of Regs. 228 and  229.	 Thequestion for consideration is whether the power conferred onthe  Superintendent  of Police under Regs. 228	and  229  isultra vires Art. 3 11(1).Art.   311(1)  provides that no person who is  a  member  ofCivil  Service	of the Union or of an All India	 Service  orCivil Service of a State or holds civil post under the Unionor  State  shall  be dismissed or removed  by  an  authoritysubordinate to that by which he was appointed.	This Articledoes not in terms require that the authority empowered underthat  provision	 to dismiss or remove  an  official,  shoulditself	initiate  or  conduct  the  enquiry  preceding	 thedismissal  or  removal	of the officer	or  even  that	thatenquiry	 should	 be done at its instance.   The	 only  rightguaranteed to a civil servant tinder that provision is	thathe  shall  not	be  dismissed or  removed  by  an  authoritysubordinate  to that by which he was appointed.	 But  it  issaid  on  behalf  of  the  respondent  that  that  guaranteeinclude,,  within  itself the guarantee	 that  the  relevant'disciplinary enquiry should be initiated and con-305ducted	by  the authorities mentioned in the  Article.	 TheHigh Court has accepted this contention.  We have now to seewhether the view taken by the High Court is correct.Art.  310(l) of the Constitution declares that every  personwho  is	 a member of civil service of a State or  holds	 anycivil  post in a State holds office during the	pleasure  ofthe Governor of a State.  But the pleasure doctrine embodiedtherein	  is  subject  to  the	other  provisions   in	 theConstitution.  Two, other Articles in the Constitution whichcut down the width of the power given under Art. 310(l)	 areArts.  '309 and 311.  Art. 309 provides that subject to	 theprovisions  of	the Constitution, Acts	of  the	 appropriateLegislature may regulate the recruitment, and conditions  ofservice	 of persons appointed, to public services and  postsin connection with the affairs of the Union or of any State.Proviso to that Article says :"Provided  that it shall be competent for the  President  orsuch  person  as he may direct in the case of  services	 andposts  in collection with the affairs of the Union, and	 forthe  Governor of a State or such person as he may direct  inthe  case  of  services and posts  in  connection  with	 theaffairs	  of  the  State  to  make  rules   regulating	 therecruitment,  and  the	conditions  of	service	 of  personsappointed,  to	such services and posts until  provision  inthat  behalf is made by or under an Act of  the	 appropriateLegislature under this article, and any rules so made  shallhave effect subject to the provisions of any such Act."One  of the powers conferred under this proviso is  to	makerules  regulating  the	conditions  of	service	 of  personsappointed to civil services of the Union or the State as thecase  may be.  The expression "conditions of service" is  anexpression  of	wide import.  As pointed by this  Court	 in,Pradyat	 Kumar	Bose  v. The Hon'ble the  Chief	 Justice  ofCalcutta  High Court (1), the dismissal of an official is  amatter	which falls within "conditions of service of  publicservants.   The Judicial Committee of the Privy	 Council  inNorth West Frontier Province v. Suraj Narain Anand (2)	tookthe view that a right of dismissal is a condition of servicewithin	the  meaning  of  the words  under  s.	243  of	 theGovernment of India Act, 1935.Lord Thankerton speaking for the Board observed therein"apart	from consideration whether the context	indicates  aspecial	  significance	to  the	 expression  conditions	  ofservice?  their Lordships are unable in the absence  of	 anysuch special significance, to regard provisions(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1331.(2) [1948] L.R. 75 I.A. 343.306which  prescribe the circumstances under which the  employeris to be entitled to terminate the service as otherwise thanconditions  of	the service, whether  these  provisions	 arecontractual  or	 statutory; they are therefore	of   opinionthat  the  natural meaning of the expression  would  includesuch provisions."In  P. Balakataiali v. 7he Union of India and  Ors.(1)	thisCourt  proceeded on the basis that a rule providing for	 thetermination of the service of a railway official can be madein exercise of the powers conferred on the Government by ss.241(2), 247 and 263(3) of the Government of India Act, 1935.The  expression	 'conditions  of service'  means  all  thoseconditions which regulate the holding of a post by a  personright  from the time of his appointment till his  retirementand even beyond it in matters like pension etc.But  for the incorporation of Art. 311 in  the	Constitutioneven  in  respect of matters provided therein,	rules  couldhave been framed under Art. 309.  The provisions in Art. 311confer	additional rights on the civil servants.   Hence  weare unable to agree, with the High Court that the  guaranteegiven  under  Art. 311(l) includes within itself  a  furtherguarantee  that	 the disciplinary proceedings  resulting  indismissal  or  removal	of a civil servant  should  also  beinitiated and conducted by the authorities mentioned in thatArticle.In  the result this appeal is allowed, the judgment  of	 theHigh Court is set aside and the writ petition dismissed.  Inthe circumstances of the case we make no order as to costs-.Y.P.		       Appeal allowed.(1) [1958] S.C.R. 1052.307