PETITIONER:M/S.  PEIRCE LESLIE & CO., LTD., KOZHIKODE	Vs.RESPONDENT:THEIR WORKMENDATE OF JUDGMENT:09/03/1960BENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASBENCH:GUPTA, K.C. DASGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1960 AIR  826		  1960 SCR  (3) 194 CITATOR INFO : D	    1967 SC1222	 (10) R	    1968 SC 538	 (28) R	    1971 SC2521	 (18)ACT:Industrial  Dispute-Bonus-Full Bench  formula-Variation	 of-Unusual risk in business and employment of small  capital-Ifgood grounds for variation-Rehabilitation allowance, Purposeof-Claim  for bonus by small percentage	 of  workmen-Whetherentire surplus can be taken into account.HEADNOTE:During the year 1954-1955, the appellant paid a sum  equiva-lent  to 3 months basic wages as bonus to its  monthly	paidclerical  staff.   These  employees  raised  an	  industrialdispute claiming an additional bonus equal to 7 months basicwages.	 The  Industrial Tribunal to which the	dispute	 wasreferred  awarded additional bonus equal to 5  months  basicwages.	 The appellant contended that (i) since the  elementof  risk in the business was great and the capital  employedwas  small  the	 Full Bench formula  had  to  be  materiallyaltered	 and rates higher than 6% on paid up capital and  4%on  reserves employed as working capital should	 be  allowed(ii) a higher allowance ought to be made for rehabilitation;and  (iii)  the entire surplus ought not to  be	 treated  asavailable for distribution as only a small percentage of theworkmen had made the claim for bonus.Held,  that  since the claim for additional bonus  was	madeonly  by  a  small  percentage of  the	workmen	 the  entireavailable  surplus  could  not be treated  as  available  indistributing bonus to them.  Not only the 882 staff  memberswho  had raised the claim but II, 247 other workmen as	wellhad  contributed to the emergence of the surplus.   The	 sumstill in the hands of the company could not be treated as  amatter only between the company and these present claimants.Indian Hume Pipe Co.,	 v. Their Workmen, [1959] SUPP. 2S.C.R. 948.  L.L.I. 357, applied.Return	on invested capital had always to provide  for	pureinterest plus compensation for the risks of business.  In  aparticular industry where the risk was appreciably less thanusual there would be good cause for providing less than 6  %; and in an industry where extraordinary risks were run morethan  6%  could reasonably be provided for.   There  was  nounusual risk run by the appellants in their business and  nocase was made out for allowing any higher return on the paidup  capital or working capital.	 There was no  justificationfor compensation of the entrepreneur for the fact that	witha small amount of capital considerable profits were earned.As  fixed  capital  was	 liable	 to  gradual   deteriorationreserves had to be created out of profits for replacing	 anyportion	 of  it as soon as it became  too  deteriorated	 forefficient use.	It was neces-195sary  that the company's capital fund remained	intact.	  Anamount reasonably sufficient for the notional requirement ofrehabilitation	during the relevant year was deducted  as  aprior  charge  in ascertaining surplus	profits	 from  whichbonus could be paid.  The basis of the prior charge was	 theassumption that rehabilitation was a continuing process	 andneeded	allotment  from year to year.  But  in	the  present'case  the  appellant had failed to make out  any  case	 forrehabilitation	 allowance  in	addition  to  the   ordinarydepreciation.Associated Cement Company's case, [1959] S.C.R. 925,  reliedon.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 209/58.Appeal	by special leave from the Award dated September	 16,1957  of  the  Industrial Tribunal  No.	 11,  Ernakulam,  inIndustrial Dispute No. 34 of 1957.G.   B. Pai and Sardar Bahadur,for the appellants.A.   V.	 Viswanatha  Sastri  and M. S. K.  Sastri,  for	 therespondents.1960.  March 9. The Judgment of the Court was delivered byDAS GUPTA, J.-The appellant-M/s.  Peirce Leslie & Co., Ltd.,is a private limited company engaged in various	 enterprisesmainly	in  South.   India.  It	 started  business  in	thiscountry	 over a century ago and though it is  registered  inEngland almost all its activities appear to be carried on inthis country.  The principal activities that require mentionare  the  business in cashew nuts which	 the  Company  sellsafter roasting raw cashew nuts purchased in this country andin  Africa, and business in coir products and several  othercountry	 produce like ginger, lemon grass oil etc.  A  largeportion	 of the products in which it trades is	exported  toforeign countries.  Apart from these trading activities	 thecompany is also engaged in agency business including workingas  managing agents of many companies.	For many  years	 thecompany as a whole had made good profits, though in some  ofits  many lines, losses were incurred.	The company  has  onits  pay  roll a large number of employees  and	 apart	fromsuperior  officers in its covenanted and uncovenanted  staffboth Indian and European it employs in its various lines  ofbusiness a large number of workmen including clerical staff.The196clerical staff alone consists of 882 monthly paid employees.For many years the Company has voluntarily paid bonus to allits  employees out of the surplus profits.  To	the  monthlypaid  employees	 with whom we are concerned in	the  presentappeal	the  company  paid during the  year  1954-55  a	 sumequivalent  to	three  months' basic wages  as	bonus.	 Notcontent	 with this these employees through their  Union	 putforward	 a  claim  for	additional  bonus.   The  industrialdispute	 thus raised was referred by the Government  to	 theIndustrial  Tribunal  sitting  at  Coimbatore.	 Before	 theTribunal  the workmen claimed an additional bonus  equal  toseven months' basic wages.  The company's case was that	 thepeculiar nature of its activities specially the fact that inits agency business very little capital was employed and thefact that in the cashew business and other produce  businessthe  element  of risk was unusually treat  justify  materialalteration  in the Full Bench Formula for  ascertainment  ofthe  available	surplus	 in  several  respects.	  The	mainalteration  asked  for before the Tribunal appears  to	havebeen that rates higher than 6% of paid up capital and 4%  onreserves  employed as working capital should be, allowed  inworking the Full Bench Formula in view of the special  risksin  its	 business  and	the further  fact  that	 its  agencybusiness  requires very little capital.	 These	claims	wererejected  by the Tribunal.  The Tribunal also accepted	onlypartially  the	company's claims as  regards  rehabilitationallowances  for the year and as regards actual amounts	usedas  working capital.  Having arrived on its calculations  atthe  figure of pound 55,137 as the available  surplus  aftermeeting all prior and necessary charges the Tribunal awardedbonus equal to five months' basic wages in addition to threemonths' basic wages already voluntarily paid by the company.In  making  this  distribution	the  Tribunal  rejected	 thecompany's case that as this claim was raised by only a smallpercentage  of	the  workmen the  entire  available  surplusshould not be treated as available in distributing bonus  tothese few workmen.The  first contention urged in appeal before us is that	 theTribunal was wrong in rejecting the com-197pany's claim for higher return than usual on paid up capitaland  reserves  used  as working	 capital.   The	 appellants'counsel	 has  taken  us	 through  the  evidence,  oral	 anddocumentary, as regards what he' characterized as the  heavy"  fluctuations " in the price of raw cashew nuts which	 thecompany had to purchase and the price in the foreign  marketof the finished goods.	That there is some amount of risk isundoubtedly  true.   We are not convinced however  that	 thecompany's  business whether in cashew nuts or in  any  otherline is attended with such unusual risk as would justify theprovision of more than the usual rate of return.  Return  oninvested  capital  has always to provide for  pure  interestplus compensation for the risks of the business.  Prevailinginterest  in the money market yielded by giltedged  securityis  ordinarily	taken to be a fair index of what  should  beconsidered reasonable as pure interest.	 For many years	 nowthis  figure has varied from 3 to 4 per cent.  If  no  riskswere involved, this percentage should have been considered afair  return  on  invested  capital.   It  is  because	mostbusinesses  contain an element of risksome more	 some  less-because	 of fluctuations, on the one hand in the  prices  ofraw  material and on the other hand in the effective  demandfor  the  finished  goods-apart	 from  cyclical	 booms	 anddepressions  that  an  additional  return  of  2  to  3%  isgenerally considered necessary to compensate for the  risks.It  is	in view of this that a return of  6%  is  ordinarilyconsidered  to be a fair return on the capital	invested  inthe  shape  of paid up capital.	 In  a	particular  industrywhere the risk is appreciably less than usual there will  begood cause for providing less than 6%.	And similarly, in anindustry  where	 extraordinary risks are run  more  than  6%should reasonably be provided for.If  therefore there was reason to think that  the  appellantcompany's  contention  that its business was  attended	withunusual risks was correct there would have been good  reasonto  allow a higher rate than 6% on the paid up	capital	 andalso  a higher rate than 4% on the reserves used as  workingcapital.  We are not however satisfied that any such unusualrisk is198run.   There is no more speculation in buying raw  nuts	 androasting  the same and selling them than there is,  say,  inbuying	raw cotton in the market, spinning  yarn  therefrom,making	it into cloth and selling such cloth, or in  buying.raw  jute,  spinning yarn therefrom weaving  it	 into  gunnycloth  and selling the same.  No case for any higher  returnon the paid up capital or working capital has been madeout by the evidence.Nor  can  the fact that the agency business of	the  companydoes not require much in the way of capital be considered tobe  a reason for allowing a higher rate of return  in  thoselines.	If in the agency businesses considerable profits areearned	with a small amount of capital the  contribution  tosuch  earning by labour including both those at the top	 andthose  at the bottom is necessarily considerable.  There  isno  justification for compensating the entrepreneur for	 thefact  that  with  a small  amount  of  capital	considerableprofits are earned.This  brings  us  to  the  appellant's	case  about   higherrehabilitation	allowance than what has been allowed by	 theTribunal.   The	 company put its  claim	 for  rehabilitationallowance  at the figure of pound, 31,780 but  the  Tribunalaccepted  only	a sum of pound 9 11,250	 as  the  reasonablefigure	towards	 statutory depreciation	 and  rehabilitationtogether.   In support of its claim, the Company produced  anumber	of  statements prepared by witnesses claimed  to  beexperts	  showing  the	replacement  value   of	  buildings,machinery, furniture and sundry plants which constituted thefixed capital of the company.  Statements are also  producedshowing	 the  further expectation of life of each  of  theseitems.	 The  services of a chartered accountant  firm	werealso  requisitioned  and we have on the record	a  statementshowing	 how the figures required for replacement have	beenworked out for the various items of buildings, machinery andfurniture and sundry plants.  According to Exhibit E-50, thestatement on which great reliance was place by the  company,the   total  replacement  value	 of  its  assets   was	 RS.1,08,02,330  made  up of Rs. 77,86,350	for  buildings,	 Rs.18,52,320 for plants' and machinery,'199Rs.  3,63,550  for  furniture and Rs.  8,00,110	 for  sundryplants.	 Different items of buildings and machinery are	 putin separate groups according as the replacement is necessaryin view of the residual age, during 1955-60, 1960-65,  1965-70, 1970-75, 1975-80, 1980-85, 1985-90, 1990-95,  1995-2000,2000-2005. 2005 is taken as. the last year, as the  residualage is calculated from 1955 and the maximum residual age  istaken  to  be  50 years.  Exhibit E-43	shows  the  detailedcalculations on this basis how the sum of Rs. 77,86,335	 wasarrived at as the replacement cost of buildings.  Exhibit E-46 is a similar statement in respect of replacement costs ofplant  and  machinery.	Ex.  E-29A shows  how  after  takingreserves  for  rehabilitation for the  different  groups  ofbuildings into consideration, the rehabilitation charge	 forthe season 1952-53 is worked out at Rs. 19,878 for buildingsand the rehabilitation for plant and machinery is worked outas  pound,  5,435.  Details are also given  as	regards	 thecalculation  of pound, 4,744 as the rehabilitation costs  tobe  provided  for  sundry plants and  pound,  1,723  as	 therehabilitation costs for furniture in the year 1954-55.The  very fact that such care has been taken  in  furnishingdetails to the Court inclines one prima, facie to accept thecorrectness   of  these	 figures  without   much   scrutiny.Scrutiny is however very much needed before the figures	 andthe  calculations are ,accepted.  Mention may first be	madeof the fact that though it was stated by the witness who  isresponsible for the preparation of the replacement costs  ofthe  machinery	that he obtained quotations  from  differentfirms,	no such quotation has been placed on record.   That,as  the Tribunal itself recognized, affected very  much	 thevalue  of  these figures.  As however after  mentioning	 theinfirmities  of the evidence the Tribunal decided to  acceptas_a  reasonably  accurate  statement  this  figure  of	 Rs.1,08,02,330  as	 the  total replacement value  we  need	 notconsider  whether we ourselves would have been	prepared  toaccept the evidence if the matter was being considered by usin the first instance.200A more serious question however is whether the basis adoptedby the appellant's expert for the calculation of this sum asthe  replacement costs to be provided over the years in	 theapplication  of the Full Bench Formula can be accepted.	  Asthe  appellant's expert himself has stated the value he	 hasgiven as the rehabilitation cost for any particular buildingis  on the basis of what would be required to  construct  a,similar building if the existing building was pulled down in1955.	He  has	 proceeded on the same way  as	regards	 themachinery  and other assets.  The Tribunal  after  acceptingthe  figure  of Rs. 1,08,02,330 as the	correct	 figure	 forreplacement  deducted  the  sum which  in  its	opinion	 wasavailable  in the reserves towards such	 rehabilitation	 andthen  divided the remainder by 50 as 50 years would  be	 theperiod	that  these buildings and machinery  would  last  ifreplaced in 1955 by new buildings and new machinery.It  has been urged before us that the Tribunal was wrong  individing  the  sum  obtained after the total  amount  to  beprovided was ascertained by 50 inasmuch as the figure of Rs.1,08,02,330  was itself arrived at on the basis of  the	 sumthat  would have to be provided for the different groups  ofbuildings  and	the sum to be provided in  1954-55  for	 allthese  different groups should have been accepted  at  thesefigures worked out in Exhibit E-29A.It  appears  to	 us  that this method  of  arriving  at	 therehabilitation costs to be provided in a particular year  isnot  useful and cannot be safely relied upon. To  understandthe  fallacy of the method applied we may briefly state	 thelogic behind the provisions for rehabilitation.	 Because thefixed  capital	of  any industry is the	 victim	 of  gradualdeterioration  the prudent businessman creates reserves	 outof  his profits so that as soon as any portion of the  fixedcapital has become too deteriorated for efficient working itmay  be replaced.  The economic welfare of the country as  awhole no less than the interests of the businessman requiresthat  the company's capital fund should remain :Intact.	  Itis for this reason that an amount reasonably sufficient	 forthe  notional  requirement  of	rehabilitation	during	 therelevant201year  is deducted as a prior charge in ascertaining  suprlusprofits	 from  which bonus can be paid.	 The  basis  of	 theprior  charge  is the assumption that  rehabilitation  is  acontinuing process and so needs allotment from year to year.That is why it has now been held that if the amount allottedfor  a	specific year is not used, it should be	 taken	intoaccount in the later year.This  has been recognized in the Full Bench Formula and	 hasreceived  the authoritative recognition from this  Court  innumerous cases.	 A full discussion of the principle involvedcan be found in Associated Cement Company's Case (1).  It isimportant to note what was pointed out there as regards	 thereplacement  value  being calculated on the  basis  of	whatwould be required to replace the fixed assets in question atthe  date when replacement is due.  One way of	ascertainingthat was to multiply the original cost, by the figure  whichwould  reflect	the expected rise or fall in prices  at	 thedate  for  replacement.	  After	 the  replacement  cost	  isascertained  it is necessary to deduct therefrom the  amountalready	 lying in reserves for this purpose and then to	 seeover  what period the balance will have to be found.   Therewill  no doubt be difficulties in the way of estimating	 thereplacement  costs in this manner, but that  cannot  justifythe  attempt  at  over simplification  by  working  out	 thereplacement cost on the hypothesis that replacement cost  atthe  date of replacement will be the same as on the  presentdate.  If the prices fall in the meantime too much will havebeen  set  apart  for rehabilitation,  if  prices  rise	 toolittle.	  To take the instance of buildings which  form	 thegreater	 portion of the assets of the appellant company,  itmay well be that by the time some of these buildings requirereplacement, the cost of construction will have become	lessthan  at  the  present	time by	 reason	 of  more  efficientproduction of cement and steel in the country.	So, also theprice  of machinery some years later, may well be less	thanthe price now, by reason of such machinery being produced inour own country.  The layman's apprehension that prices rise(1)  [1959] S.C.R. 925.26202never  to fall again cannot be accepted as a  correct  basisfor calculation of the replacement cost on a future date.The entire basis of the calculation of the replacement	costby the appellant's experts is what such costs will be if thebuilding  was pulled down or the machinery scrapped in	1955and had to be replaced by a new machinery on that date.	 Hisestimate  of  the  replacement	cost  cannot  therefore	  beaccepted  as  a	 sure  basis  for  any	calculation  of	 therehabilitation costs to be provided.It is unnecessary therefore to go into the further  questionas to whether the Tribunal was justified in treating the sumof  pound 20,000/- and also another sum of pound  44,760  asavailable  towards rehabilitation.  We may however  indicatethat  if it were necessary to go into the question we  wouldhave probably hesitated to hold that these sums were not  infact available for rehabilitation.A  strict view of the evidence thus justifies a.  conclusionthat  the appellant company has failed to make out any	casefor  rehabilitation  allowance in addition to  the  ordinarydepreciation.	As  however  the  learned  counsel  for	 therespondent   did  not  challenge  the  correctness  of	 theallowance  of pound,11,250 assessed by the Tribunal  as	 thetotal	allowances   towards  statutory	  depreciation	 andrehabilitation	together  it would be proper  to  apply	 theformula on that basis.The  other question in dispute was as regards the amount  ofreserves actually used as working capital.  Out of what	 wasclaimed	 by  the  company as reserves  employed	 as  workingcapital	 the  Tribunal	disallowed two items.	One  was  inrespect	 of  a sum of pound 2,09,339 which appeared  in	 thebalance-sheet  as provision for taxation liability;  anotherwas  an	 item  of  pound 8,250	as  provision  for  proposeddividend  on deferred ordinary shares.	The Tribunal was  ofopinion	 that the company had not made any attempt to  provethat  these amounts had actually been used in the  business.The  appellant	contends before us that a  scrutiny  of	 thebalance-sheet  is sufficient to satisfy any one	 that  theseamounts had actually been employed as working203capital.   It is stressed in this connection that  when	 thebalance-sheets	were put in evidence through  the  company'sofficer no challenge as to the correctness of the  statementmade  therein  Was  made in  cross-examination.	  Though  nodirect	challenge  to  the  correctness	 of  the  statementsappearing  in  the  balancesheets about	 the  value  of	 thedifferent  assets appears to have been made it is  importantto notice that the employer's witness No. 2 through whom thebalancesheets  and  the	 profit and  loss  accounts  of	 thecompany were put in evidence was asked in  cross-examinationas  regards  the discrepancy between the statements  in	 thebalance-sheet  E-8  where the bank overdraft  was  shown  aspound1,95,990  and the statement Exhibit E-12  which  showedthe  bank  overdraft  in June 1955 as 37-5  lakhs  which  isequivalent to pound 2,75,000.  The difference being of aboutpound80,000, the witness was asked which is correct, whetherE-8  or E-127 and when the witness answered that  both	werecorrect,  he  was  asked "how".	 His answer-was	 "I  do	 notknow".It  may be that there is a satisfactory explanation of	thisdifference  but	 the evidence on record	 does  not  disclosethis.	When there remains prima facie such  discrepancy  asregards the very important figure as regards bank  overdraftthe Tribunal would well be justified in refusing to base anyconclusion  on the valuation of different assets  as  statedtherein.There is apart from this the important fact that the companyitself	does  not claim that whatever appears to be  on	 theasset side over and above the paid up capital has come	fromthe reserves.  Exhibit E-30 is the statement prepared by thecompany's  Chartered Accountant to show	 "Reconciliation  ofworking	 capital as on 30th June, 1958." It arrives  at	 thefigure of pound6,05,564 as the working capital by  deductingfrom the current assets as per balance-sheet as on June	 30,1955,  six  out of nine items under "Current  liabilities  &provisions",-3	items  not  deducted  are  those  under	 (1)liability for taxation other than U.K. Income-tax,(2)  proposeddividend on deferred ordinary shares and (3) capital profitson proposed distribution.  The obvious reason for  deductingthe  six  items	 from the current assets to  arrive  at	 theworking capital is that204these items in the balance-sheets under current	 liabilitiesand provision would have to be met during the year out of  aportion	  of  the  current  assets,  which   portion   wouldaccordingly not be available for use as working capital.  Ifthat  is the case as regards the other items  under  currentliabilities  and provisions it is not clear why that  shouldnot  also  be the case as regards  the	current	 liabilitiesunder "liabilities for taxation other than U.K.	 Income-tax"and  under "proposed dividend on deferred ordinary  shares".In  the	 absence  of evidence to the contrary  there  is  noground	for thinking that these current liabilities had	 notalso  to be met out of the current assets during  the  year.No  such  evidence  has	 been  produced.   The	Tribunal  istherefore  right in our opinion in rejecting  the  company'sclaim  that  these  amounts were also  employed	 as  workingcapital.As regards the other prior charges there is no dispute.	 TheTribunal applying the Full Bench Formula on the basis of thedifferent  findings hold after deducting the  bonus  alreadypaid  voluntarily by the company that the company had  stillin its hand a sum of pound55,137 out of which it could pay areasonable amount to these workmen.When  deciding	how  much out  of  this	 pound956,137  couldreasonably be paid as additional bonus to these workmen	 theTribunal had to consider the contention raised on behalf  ofthe appellant-company that it would be unfair-to ignore	 thefact  that  not these staff members alone but  11,247  otherworkmen	 as well have contributed to the emergence  of	thissurplus.   The appellant's argument was that  staff  memberswho have raised this dispute should not be allowed to  stealan advantage over the numerous other workers of the  companyand  that just as results of the different branches  of	 thecompany	 have been considered as a whole in arriving at	 thefigure of available surplus it is just and proper that theseworkmen	 who have raised the dispute should be given only  afair  share out of that portion of the surplus which may  beconsidered  properly  payable  to all  the  workmen  of	 thecompany.   In  dealing with this question the  Tribunal	 hassaid205"  But	the fortune of the 11,247 workers  depend  upon	 thetrading results of the department in which they are working;the bonus of the workers is decided compartment-wise and noton the basis of the overall profits of the company.   Cashewworkers	 are given bonus on the basis of the cashew  depart-ment  profits and not on the basis of the total	 profits  ofthe  company.  The staff members are transferable  from	 onedepartment  to	another	 and  from  one	 branch	 to  anotherbranch."We  are not able to understand how in spite of the  way	 thecompany's  balance-sheets and profit and loss accounts	havebeen kept the different departments of the company could  betreated separately for the purposes of bonus.  The mere factthat  the  company has actually done so does not  make	suchdistribution  right.  Obviously if cashew workers  would  infact be entitled to a larger bonus on the overall results ofthe  company they have been unfairly treated by the  companyin  having  been given lesser bonus on the basis  of  cashewdepartment profits.  It is urged on behalf of  the,appellantthat  the  fact	 that the workmen  other  than	these  staffmembers have got less than they would have been entitled  todoes not justify the grant of a larger share to the  presentworkmen	 than what they would be entitled to if those  otherworkmen had been given a fair share.This  Court had to deal with a somewhat similar position  inIndian	Hume Pipe Co. v. Their Workmen(1).  The	 respondentsthere  were  workmen  only  of	the  Wadala  factory.	 Theappellant  had however paid to various workmen elsewhere  asand by way of bonus varying between 4% and 29% of the  basicwages  for the year in question.  It was clear that the	 sumof  Rs.	 1,23,138/only	had  been paid	in  full  and  finalsettlement  to the workmen in some of the factories and	 thebonus  calculations on an all-India basis would work to	 theadvantage  of the appellant, in so far as they would  resultin  saving  to the appellant of the difference	between	 theamounts	 to which those workmen would be entitled to on	 thebasis  of the all-India figures adopted by the tribunal	 andthe amounts actually(1)  [1959] SUPP. 2 S.C.R. 948.206paid  to  them as a result of  agreements,  conciliation  oradjudication.  On behalf of the respondents it was thereforecontended that the calculations should be made after  takinginto account the savings thus effected:.  Dealing with	thiscontention  this Court observed :" We are afraid we cannot  accept this contention.  If	thiscontention  was	 accepted, the respondents before  us  wouldhave  an advantage over those workmen with whom	 settlementshave been made and would get larger amounts by way of  bonusmerely by reason of the fact that the appellant had  managedto  settle the claims of those workmen ,at  lesser  figures.If  this  contention of the respondents was  pushed  to	 itslogical extent, it would also mean that in the event of	 thenon-fulfilment of the conditions imposed by the tribunal  inthe  award of bonus herein bringing in savings in the  handsof the appellant, the respondents would be entitled to	takeadvantage of those savings also and should be awarded largeramounts by way of bonus, which would really be the result ofthe  claimants entitled to the same not receiving  it  undercertain	 circumstances-an  event which would  be  purely  anextraneous one and unconnected with the contribution of	 therespondents   towards  the  gross  profits  earned  by	 theappellant.    The   tribunal  was,   therefore,	  right	  incalculating the bonus on an all-India basis."Though	in  the present case there has been  no	 settlement"strictly  speaking  with the other workers  in	the  variousbranches, the considerations which weighed with the Court inthe  above  case are fully applicable to this case  and	 theTribunal must be held to have committed an error in treatingthe  sum still in the hands of the company as a matter	onlybetween the company and these present claimants.In  deciding  what  relief may reasonably be  given  to	 theappellant  company in view of this error in  the  Tribunal'sapproach to the question of distribution of the amount stillavailable,  we have however to take into account two  errorswhich  have been made by the Tribunal in this connection  infavour	 of  the  appellant.   One  of	these  is  that	  indistributing the available207surplus	 the  Tribunal	omitted to  take  into	account	 theimportant fact that a sum of no less than  pound1,10,000/hasbeen capitalised out of the reserves at the beginning of theyear.  The second error was that the Tribunal in saying thatafter  paying  8 months' bonus there is a balance  of  pound34,397 with the employer, omitted to take into considerationthe  fact that the company would also have the benefit of  alarge  amount as income-tax rebate in respect of  the  bonuspaid to its clerical staff.Taking all these facts into consideration we are of  opinionthat  a	 fair  order would be to award to  the	staff  bonusequivalent  to	3  months' basic wages in  addition  to	 theamount already paid voluntarily.We therefore allow the appeal in part and in modification ofthe award made by the Industrial Tribunal award to the staffof  M/s.   Peirce Leslie Co., Ltd., bonus  equivalent  to  3months'	 basic	wages  in addition  to	the  amount  alreadyvoluntarily paid by the company.  There will be no order  asto costs.Appeal partly allowed.