PETITIONER:SHIVJI NATHUBHAI	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE UNION OF INDIA & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:19/01/1960BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.GUPTA, K.C. DASSHAH, J.C.CITATION: 1960 AIR  606		  1960 SCR  (2) 775 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC1361	 (8) R	    1961 SC1669	 (6,34) R	    1962 SC1110	 (8) D	    1962 SC1513	 (7) RF	    1964 SC1140	 (13) R	    1964 SC1643	 (4,7) R	    1965 SC1595	 (16) RF	    1966 SC 671	 (5) RF	    1967 SC1507	 (6) R	    1967 SC1606	 (8) APL	    1970 SC1896	 (18) R	    1973 SC 678	 (14) R	    1974 SC  87	 (11) D	    1987 SC1802	 (29) RF	    1991 SC 818	 (37)ACT:Mining	Lease-Grant by	the State Government-Cancellation inreview	by  the Central Government-Such	 cancellation  if  aquasi-judicial	act-Mineral  Concession	 Rules,	 1949.	 rr.52,54.HEADNOTE:Rule  54 of the Mineral Concession Rules, 1949, provided  asfollows:"  Review.   Upon receipt of such application,	the  CentralGovernment  may,  if it thinks fit, call  for  the  relevantrecords	  and	other  information   from   the	  ProvincialGovernment,  and after considering any explanation that	 maybe offered by the Provincial Government, cancel the order ofthe Provincial Government or revise it in such manner as theCentral Government may deem just and proper.The  appellant was granted mining leases in respect of	fiveareas	and  possession	 was  delivered	 to  him.    On	  anapplication for review made by one of the respondents  underr.  52 of the Rules, the Central Government, without  givingthe  appellant an opportunity of being heard, cancelled	 theleases	with  regard to two of the areas  and  directed	 theState  Government to grant leases in respect thereof to	 thesaid  respondent.  The appellant applied to the	 High  Courtunder  Art.  226 of the Constitution for quashing  the	saidorder.	 The Single judge who heard the application as	wellas  the	 Division  Bench on appeal held that  the  order  ofcancellation  was an administrative order and the  appellantwas  not entitled to a hearing.	 It was contended on  behalfof  the appellant in this Court that rr. 52-55 of the  Rulesshowed that the proceeding before the Central Government wasa  quasijudicial proceeding and, consequently, the rules  ofnatural justice must apply.Held,  that  the contention must prevail and  the  order  ofcancellation be quashed.In exercising its power of review under r. 54 of the MineralConcessions  Rules,  1949,  the	 Central  Government   actedjudicially and not administratively.Assuming that the act of the State Government in granting  amining	lease was an administrative act, it was not  correctto  say	 that  no right of any kind  passed  to	 the  lesseethereunder  untill  the review was decided  by	the  CentralGovernment  where a review had been applied for.   Rule	 52,therefore,  by	giving the aggrieved party the	right  to  areview	created	 a  lis	 between him  and  the	lessee	and,consequently,  in  the absence of anything to  the  contraryeither in r. 54 or the statute itself, there could be no 99776doubt	that  the  Central  Government	was  acting   quasi-judicially under r. 54.Province   of  Bombay  v.  Kushaldas  S.    Advani.   [1950]S.C.R.621, applied.R.  v.	Electricity  Commissioner.  (1924)  I.	K.  B.	171,referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 428 of 1959.Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 25,  1959,of the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) at Delhi in LettersPatent Appeal No. 47-D of 1955, arising out of the  judgmentand order dated November 28, 1955 of the said High Court  inWrit Petition No. 306-D of 1954.N.   C.	  Chatterjee,  J.  B.  Dadachanji,  S.	N.   Andley,Rameshwar Nath and P. L. Vohra, for the appellant.C.   K.	 Daphtary.  Solicitor-General of India, R. GapapathyIyer, R. H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos.	1  &2.G.   S.	 Pathak, S. S. Shukla and Mrs. E.  Udayaratnam,	 forrespondent No. 3.1960.  January 19.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyWANCHOO	 J.-This  appeal upon a certificate granted  by	 thePunjab	High Court raises the question whether an  order  ofthe Central Government under r. 54 of the Mineral ConcessionRules, 1949, (hereinafter called the Rules) framed under  s.6  of  the Mines and Minerals (Regulation  and	Development)Act, No. 53 of 1941, (hereinafter called the Act) is  quasi-judicial  or administrative.  The brief facts necessary	 forthis purpose are these.	 The appellant was granted a  mininglease  by  the then Ruler of Gangpur State on  December	 30,1947, shortly before the merger of that State with the Stateof  Orissa on January 1, 1948.	This lease was	annulled  onJune  29,  1949.   Thereafter  the  appellant  was   grantedcertificates of approval in respect of prospecting  licencesand  mining  leases.  Eventually, the appellant	 applied  onDecember  19,  1949,  for mining  leases  for  manganese  inrespect	 of  five  areas  in  the  district  of	  Sundergarh(Orissa).   He	was  asked  on July 4,	1950,  to  submit  aseparate		      777application  for each area which he did on July 27,    1950.Some  defects  were pointed out in  these  applications	 andtherefore  the	appellant submitted  fresh  applications  onSeptember  6,  1950, after removing the	   defects.   In themeantime, the third respondent also    made applications formining	leases for manganese for the same area on  July	 10,1950.	These  applications  were  not	accompanied  by	 thedeposit	 required under r. 29 of the  Rules.   Consequently,the third respondent was asked on July 24, 1950, to  deposita  sum of Rs. 500, which it did on August 3, 1950.   It	 wasthen  found  that the third respondent's  applications	weredefective.  It was therefore asked on September 5, 1950,  tosend a separate application in the prescribed form for	eachblock  and  thereupon  it submitted  fresh  applications  onSeptember  6, 1950.  Eventually, on December 22,  1952,	 theState of Orissa granted the mining leases of the five  areasto  the	 appellant taking into account r. 32 of	 the  Rules,which prescribed priority.  It was held that the appellant'sapplications  were  prior  and	therefore  the	leases	weregranted to him.	 Thereafter on April 21, 1953, possession ofthe areas leased was delivered to the appellant.  It  seems,however, that the third respondent had applied for review tothe  Central  Government  under r. 52 of  the  Rules.	Thisreview application was allowed by the Central Government  onJanuary 28, 1954, and the Government of Orissa was  directedto grant a mining lease to the third respondent with respectto two out of the five areas.The  appellant's  complaint  is	 that he  came	to  know  inFebruary, 1954, that the third respondent had applied to theCentral	 Government  under r. 52 for review.   He  thereuponaddressed a letter to the Central Government praying that hemight be given a hearing before any order was passed on	 thereview	application.  He was, however, informed on  July  5,1955, by the Government of Orissa of the order passed by theCentral	 Government on January 28, 1954, by which the  leasegranted	 to him by the State of Orissa with respect  to	 twoareas  was cancelled.  Consequently, he made an	 applicationunder Art. 226 of the778Constitution to the Punjab High Court praying	for quashingthe order of January 28, 1954, on the	ground that it was aquasi-judicial	order and the rules of natural	justice	 hadnot  been  followed  inasmuch as he had	 not  been  given  ahearing	 before	 the review application was allowed  by	 theCentral Government, thus affecting his rights to the  -leasegranted by the State of Orissa.	 The writ petition was heardby a learned Single Judge of the High Court and it was	heldthat the order was not a quasi-judicial order but merely  anadministrative	one  and  that	there  being  no  lis,	 theappellant was not entitled to a hearing.  In the result, thewrit  petition	failed.	 The appellant went  up	 in  LettersPatent	Appeal to a Division Bench of the High Court,  whichupheld the order of the learned Single Judge.  The appellantthen  applied for a certificate to permit him to  appeal  tothis Court which was granted; and that is how the matter hascome up before us.Shri  N. C. Chatterji appearing on behalf of  the  appellantcontends that the Central Government was acting in a  quasi-judicial  capacity when it passed the order under r.  54  ofthe Rules and therefore it was incumbent upon it to hear theappellant  before  deciding  the  review  application,	 andinasmuch  as it did not do so it contravened the  principlesof natural justice which apply in such a case and the  orderis  liable  to	be quashed.  In	 support  of  this,  learnedcounsel	 relies	 on Nagendra Nath Bora and  another  v.	 TheCommissioner of Hills Division and Appeals, Assam and others(1),  and submits that rr. 52 to 55 of the Rules  which	 arerelevant  for the purpose clearly show that  the  proceedingbefore the Central Government is a quasi-judicial proceedingin view of the following circumstances appearing from  theserules:	(1)  Rule 52 gives a statutory right to	 any  personaggrieved  by an order of the State Government to apply	 forreview	in  case of refusal of a mining lease; (2)  It	alsoprescribes  a period of limitation, namely, two months;	 (3)Rule  53  prescribes a fee for an application under  r.	 52.These  circumstances taken with the circumstance that a	 lisis(1)  [1958] S.C.R. 1240.779created	 as soon as a person aggrieved by an order is  giventhe right to go up in review against another person in whosefavour	the order has been passed by   the  State Governmentshow  that the proceeding before the Central  Government  atany rate at the stage Of  review is quasi-judicial  to whichrules of natural   justice apply.Mr.  G. S. Pathak appearing for the third respondent on	 theother hand contends that the view taken by the High Court iscorrect	 and that the order of January 28, 1954, is  a	mereadministrative order and therefore it was not necessary	 forthe  Central Government to hear either party before  passingthat  order.   He points out that the minerals,	 for  miningwhich the lease is granted under the Rules, are the propertyof the State.  No person applying for a mining lease of suchminerals has any right to the grant of the lease.  Accordingto  him, the right will only arise after the lease has	beengranted by the State Government and the review	application,if  any,  has been decided by the  Central  Government.	  Hesubmits that even under r. 32, which deals with priority theState  Government  is not bound to grant the  lease  to	 theperson	who applies first and it can for any special  reasonand with the prior approval of the Central Government  grantit to a person who applies later.  His contention further isthat  as at the earlier stage when the grant is made by	 theState  Government  the order granting the lease	 is  a	mereadministrative	order-as it must be in	these  circumstances(he  asserts)-,	 the order passed on review by	the  CentralGovernment must also partake of the same nature.In  order  to decide between these rival contentions  it  isuseful	 to  refer  to	rules  52  to  55  which  fall	 forconsideration  in  this case.  These are the rules  as	theyexisted up to 1953.  Since then we are told there have	beenamendments  and even the Act has been replaced by the  Minesand  Minerals  (Regulation and Development) Act,  1957.	  Weare, however, not concerned with the Rules as modified afterJanuary	 1954 or with the Act of 1957.	Rule 52	 inter	aliaprovides that -any person aggrieved by an order of the780State Government refusing to grant a mining lease may withintwo  months of the date of such order apply to	the  CentralGovernment  for reviewing the same.  Rule   53	prescribes afee.  Rule 54 may be quoted in extenso,"  Upon receipt of such application, the Central  Governmentmay,  if  it thinks fit, call for the relevant	records	 andother  information  from  the  State  Government  and  afterconsidering any explanation that may be offered by the StateGovernment,  cancel  the order of the  State  Government  orrevise it in such manner as the Central Government may	deemjust and proper.  "Rule  55 then says that the order of the Central  Governmentunder  r. 54, and subject only to such order, any  order  ofthe State Government under these rules shall be final.This  Court had occasion to consider the nature of  the	 twokinds  of  acts,  namely,  judicial  which  includes  quasi-judicial and administrative, a number of times.	 In Provinceof  Bombay  v.	Kushaldas  S. Advani  (1),  it	adopted	 thecelebrated  definition	of a quasi-judicial  body  given  byAtkin L. J. in R. v. Electricity Commissioners (2), which isas follows:-"  Whenever  any body of persons having legal  authority  todetermine questions affecting rights of subjects, and havingthe  duty  to act judicially act in excess  of	their  legalauthority  they are subject to the controlling	jurisdictionof the King's Bench Division exercised in these writs.	"This  definition insists on three requisites each  of  whichmust be fulfilled in order that the act of the body may be aquasi-judicial	act,  namely, that the body of	persons	 (1)must  have  legal  authority,  (2)  to	determine  questionsaffecting the rights of subjects, and (3) must have the dutyto  act judicially.  After analysing the various cases,	 DasJ.  (as he then was) laid down the following  principles  asdeducible  therefrom in Kushaldas S. Advani's case (1)at  p.725 :-" (i) That, if a statute empowers an authority, not being  aCourt in the ordinary sense, to decide(1) [1950] S.C.R. 621.(2) [1924] 1 K.B. 171.			  781disputes arising out of a claim made by any party under	 thestatute which claim is opposed by another party	 and   todetermine'  the respective rights of the contesting  partieswho  are  opposed to each other,  there is a lis  and  primafacie  and in the absence of anything in the statute to	 thecontrary it is the  duty of the authority to act  judiciallyand the	  decision of the authority is a quasi-judicial act;and  (ii) that if a statutory authority has power to do	 anyact  which  will  prejudicially affect	the  subject,  then,although there are not two parties apart from the  authorityand the contest is between the authority proposing to do theact and the subject opposing it, the final determination  ofthe authority will yet be a quasi-judicial act provided	 theauthority is required by the statute to act judicially. "It is on these principles which are now well-settled that wehave to see whether the Central Government when acting underr.  54 is acting in a quasi-judicial capacity or  otherwise.It is not necessary for present purposes to decide  -whetherState  Government  when it grants a lease is  acting  merelyadministratively.   We	shall assume that the order  of	 theState  Government  granting a lease under the  Rules  is  anadministrative	order.	We have, however, to  see  what	 theposition  is after the State Government has granted a  leaseto one of the applicants before it and has refusedthe lease to others.Mr. Pathak contends that even in such a situation there	  isno right in favour of the person to whom the lease has	beengranted by the State Government till	the	     CentralGovernment has passed an order on a	review	 applicationif any. Rule 55, however, makes	   clear  that the order  ofthe State Government is final subject  to any order  by	 theCentral Government under r. 54. Now when a lease is  grantedby the State Government, it is quite possible that there maybe  no	application for review by those	 whose	applicationshave been refused.  In	such a case the order of  the  StateGovernment would  be final. It would not therefore be in ouropinion	 right to  say that no right of any kind is  createdin favour of a person to whom the lease is782granted	 by  the  State Government.   The  matter  would  bedifferent if the order of the State Government were    notto   be	  effective  until  confirmation  by   the   CentralGovernment; for in that case no right would arise until	 theconfirmation was received from the Central Government.	 Butr.  54	does  not provide for confirmation  by	the  CentralGovernment.  It gives power to the Central Government to actonly when there is an application for review before it underr.  54.	  That	is why we have	not  accepted  Mr.  Pathak'sargument  that	in substance the  State	 Government's  orderbecomes effective only after it is confirmed; r. 54 does notsupport this.  We have not found any provision in the  Rulesor  in	the  Act  which	 gives	any  power  to	the  CentralGovernment  to	review	suo  motu the  order  of  the  StateGovernment  granting  a lease.	That some kind of  right  iscreated on the passing of an order granting a lease is clearfrom  the facts of this case also.  The order  granting	 thelease  was  made  in  December	1952.	In  April  1953	 theappellant was put in possession of the areas granted to	 himand actually worked them thereafter.  At any rate, when	 thestatutory rule grants a right to any party aggrieved to makea review application to the Central Government it  certainlyfollows	 that the person in whose favour the order  is	madehas also a right to represent his case before the  authorityto  whom  the  review application is made.   It	 is  in	 thecircumstances  apparent that as soon as r. 52 gives a  rightto  an aggrieved party to apply for review a lis is  createdbetween him and the party in whose favour the grant has beenmade.  Unless therefore there is anything in the statute  tothe  contrary  it will be the duty of the authority  to	 actjudicially and its decision would be a quasi-judicial act.The next question is whether there is anything in the  Ruleswhich negatives the duty to act judicially by the  reviewingauthority.  Mr. Pathak urges that r.	54 gives full  powerto the Central Government to act as	it  may deem I	justand  proper' and that it is not bound even to call  for	 therelevant  records  and other information  from,,  the  StateGovernment before deciding an application for review.	Thatis undoubtedly			    783so. But that in our opinion does not show that the statutoryRules  negative the duty to act judicially. What  the  Rulesrequire	 is that the Central Government	 should	 act  justlyand properly; and that is what an	authority  which  isrequired  to  act  judicially must do.	The  fact  that	 theCentral	 Government  is not bound even to call	for  recordsagain does not negative the   duty  cast  upon	it  to	 actjudicially,  for  even	courts have  the  power	 to  dismissappeals	 without calling for records. Thus r. 54, lays	downnothing to the contrary. We  are therefore of  opinion	thatthere  is  prima  facie a lis in this case  as	between	 theperson to whom the  lease  has been granted and	 the  personwho is aggrieved    by the refusal and therefore Prima facieit is the duty of  the	authority which has  to	 review	 thematter to act  judicially  and there is nothing in r. 54  tothe contrary.  It  must therefore be held that on the  Rulesand the	  Act,	as  they  stood at the	relevant  time,	 theCentral	  Government was acting in a quasi-judicial capacitywhile deciding an application under r. 54. As such it	 wasincumbent upon it before coming to a decision to  give	   areasonable opportunity to the appellant, who was  the  otherparty in the review application whose	rights	were   beingaffected, to represent his case. In as	much as this was notdone, the appellant is entitled to ask us to issue a writ inthe nature of certiorari quashing   the	 order	of   January28,1954, passed by the	 Central Government.We therefore allow the appeal and setting aside	  the  orderof the High Court quash the order of the Central  Governmentpassed on January 28, 1954. It will, however, be open to theCentral Government to	 proceed   to  decide	the   reviewapplication afresh after giving a reasonable  opportunity tothe appellant to    represent  his case. The appellant	willget his costs  throughout from the third respondent, who  isthe principal contesting party.Appeal allowed.100     784