PETITIONER:GHAIO MALL & SONS	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF DELHI & OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:30/09/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.SUBBARAO, K.WANCHOO, K.N.CITATION: 1959 AIR   65		  1959 SCR 1424 CITATOR INFO : RF	    1961 SC1762	 (25) R	    1964 SC1823	 (4,32) RF	    1967 SC1145	 (16)ACT:Certiorari,  Writ  of-Rule  issued  on	application-Duty  ofinferior   Courts  and	Tribunals-If  must  produce   entirerecords.HEADNOTE:The appellant firm, an unsuccessful applicant for a  licensefor  vending foreign liquor in New Delhi for the  year	954-1955,	moved  the  High  Court	 under	art.  226   of	 theConstitution  for  a writ of certiorari quashing  the  ordergranting the license to a rival applicant and impleaded	 theChief  Minister, the Excise Commissioner, the Secretary	 andthe  Under Secretary, Finance, of the State of Delhi, as  itthen  was,  as	parties to the	application.   Its  case  insubstance  was that the applications made for the  grant  ofthe licence were never placed before the Chief	Commissionerwho alone was the competent authority to grant it under	 Ch.5,  r.	i of the Delhi Liquor License  Rules,  1935,  framedunder  S. 59 Of the Punjab Excise Act (Punj. 1 of 1914),  asextended  to  Delhi, and no order granting the	license	 wasever  made by him.  The said opposite  parties	respondents,although repeatedly called upon by the High Court to do	 so,did  not  produce  the	entire	records	 and  filed  evasiveaffidavits  and eventually produced a letter written by	 theUnder	Secretary,  Finance,  to  the  Excise	Commissionerintimating  that the Chief Commissioner had made  the  orderfor  granting  the  license  to	 the  rival  applicant	 andmaintained that the order had in fact been made by the ChiefCommissioner.	The High Court, under a	 misapprehension  offact  and  of  the true nature and  effect  of	that  letterwritten	 by  the  Under Secretary, Finance,  to	 the  ExciseCommissioner, held that the order had in fact been passed bythe  Chief  Commissioner.   The	 production  of	 the  entirerecords in the1425Supreme	 Court	made  it clear,	 and  the  respondents	alsoconceded, that the applications were never placed before theChief Commissioner, nor any order granting the said  licensewas  ever made by him.	What had happened was that  upon  anorder  made by the Chief Minister on the file in  accordancewith  a	 note put up by the Under  Secretary,  Finance,	 thelatter wrote a letter to the Excise Commissioner in reply toa previous one of his, that the license might be granted  tothe  said rival applicant.  That letter, on which  the	HighCourt had relied, was in the following terms,- With  reference to your letter No. 295/C/54 dated the	31stAugust,	 1954,	on the above subject, I am directed  to	 saythat the Chief Commissioner is pleased to approve under Rule5.  1.	of  Delhi Excise Manual Vol. 11	 the  grant  of	 L-2license to Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj, New Delhi, in placeof  the	 L-2  License surrendered by Messrs.   Army  &	NavyStores,	 New Delhi.  Necessary license may kindly be  issuedto the party concerned under intimation to this Secretariate".There  was  nothing  on the record to show  that  the  ChiefCommissioner  had  ever concurred in the order made  by	 theChief Minister on the file.Held,  that the attempt of the official respondents  to	 by-pass the Court must be strongly deprecated, and the order ofthe High Court must be reversed.When a superior Court issues a rule on an application for  awrit of certiorari, it is incumbent upon the inferior  Courtor  the quasi-judicial body, to whom the rule is  addressed,to produce the entire records along with the return so	thatthe  superior  Court may satisfy itself	 that  the  inferiorCourt or the quasijudicial body has not exceeded its  lawfuljurisdiction.	Non-production	of such records, as  in	 theinstant case, must defeat the purpose which the writ has  inview.Held, further, that in view of the undisputed practice	thatsuch a license, once granted by the Chief Commissioner,	 wasalmost automatically renewed by the Collector year to  year,it  could  not	be said that the writ  application  and	 theappeal had become infructuous on the expiry of the period ofthe  license  in  dispute and it was only  proper  that	 theappeal should be heard on merits.In the facts and circumstances of the case it was impossibleto hold that the letter of the Under Secretary embodied	 theorder of the Chief Commissioner or that the Court could	 notbe  asked  to  go  behind it.	The  letter  was  clearly  acommunication of the sanction and could not be equated	withthe sanction itself.Although an Under Secretary was competent to authenticate anorder made by the Chief Commissioner, the letter in questiondid not purport to be made in the name of the Chief  Commis-sioner	and therefore the letter could not be treated  as  aproperly1426authenticated order to which the presumption raised by	Art.166 of the Constitution could properly attach.Dattatreya  Moreshwar  Pangarkar  v. The  State	 of  Bombay,[1952] S.C.R. 6I2, held inapplicable.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No. 481 of 1957.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember 12, 1955, of the Punjab High Court (Circuit  Bench)Delhi, in Civil Writ Application No. 11-D of 1955.Gurbachan Singh and R. S. Narula, for the appellant.C.K. Daphtary, Solicitor-General of India, H. J.  Umrigarand T. M. Sen, for respondents Nos.  1 to 4.Dr.   J. N. Banerjee and P. C. Agarwala, for respondent	 No.5.1958.	September  30.	 The  Judgment	of  the	 Court	 wasdelivered byDAS C. J.-The facts material for the purpose of disposing ofthis  appeal  by special leave are shortly as  follows:	 Theappellants, before us claim to have been dealers in  foreignliquor	since 1922 and to have, before the partition of	 thecountry,  held licenses in forms L-1, L-2, L-10 and L-11  atAmritsar, Sialkot and Multan.  The appellants allege that in1945 they had also secured a license in Form L-2 in  respectof  some  premises  in Chawri Bazar,  Delhi,  but  that	 theoperation of the said license had to be suspended on accountof  the	 unsuitability of the Chawri Bazar  premises.	Thencame the communal riots in the wake of the partition of	 thecountry	 and that license could not be renewed. ln 1951	 theappellants applied to the Chief Commissioner, Delhi, (Ex. 1)for  licenses  both  in	 Forms L-1 and	L-2  in	 respect  ofKarolbagh  or at any place in Delhi.  On May 17,  1951,	 theHome  Secretary to the Chief Commissioner by letter (Ex.  2)conveyed  to  the  appellants  the  sanction  of  the  ChiefCommissioner to the grant to them of license in Form L-2  inrespect	 of Karolbagh, Delhi.  This license has	 ever  sincethen been renewed from year to1427year.	In 1954 a vacancy arose in respect of a	 license  inForm  L-2  on  account of the closure  of  the	business  ofMessrs.	 Army and Navy Stores of Regal Buildings, New Delhi,which held such a license.  Accordingly on January 21, 1954,the  appellants	 submitted  an application (Ex.	 4)  to	 theDeputy	Commissioner  for  the grant  of  a  foreign  liquorlicense	 in  Form  L-2 in the aforesaid	 vacancy.   In	thatapplication  the  appellants stated, inter alia,  that	theywere " prepared to operate it in such a part of Delhi as maybe determined by the authorities ". Not having received	 anyreply  for nearly 3 months and apprehending that  interestedpersons	 were endeavouring to cause hindrance in the  matterof the granting of the license to them on the plea that	 theappellants   had  no  premises	in  Connaught	Place,	 theappellants, on March 11, 1954, wrote a letter (Ex. 5) to theChief  Commissioner  in	 which,	 after	pointing  out	thatKarolbagh where they had their L-1 license was in New Delhi,the  appellants stated: " In any case, we have already	madeit  clear  in our application which we made  to	 the  DeputyCommissioner,  Delhi on the 21st January, 1954, that we	 areprepared  to operate this license in any locality which	 theauthorities   might   deem  proper  ".	 This	letter	 wasacknowledged   by  the	Personal  Assistant  to	 the   ChiefCommissioner who, on March 15, 1954, stated (Ex. 6) that the"  application	No. Nil dated 18-3-1954 on  the	 subject  ofgrant  of  foreign  liquor license in Form L-2	"  had	beenforwarded to the Home Secretary, Delhi State, for  disposal.Exhibit 7 to the petition is an important document.  It is aletter	dated May 21, 1954, addressed by the  appellants  tothe  Excise and Taxation Commissioner stating that " with  aview to avoiding any possible objection as to locality etc.,we  have  secured suitable premises also  in  the  ConnaughtPlace area, New Delhi, in which area has occurred a  vacancyon account of the surrender of this license by Messrs.	Armyand  Navy  Stores ". The letter concluded with	the  requestthat early orders be passed oil their application.  On	July30, 1954, the appellants wrote a long letter (Ex. 8) to	 theChief Commissioner claiming justice in the matter of their1428application for the L-2 license.  In the second paragraph ofthat letter it was stated: ,It is now being acclaimed by theparty  concerned and their friends that they have  succeededin removing the only obstacle that stood in the way of theirgetting	 the said L-2 license by so arranging  matters	thatour   application   has	 been  kept  back  by	the   ExciseCommissioner and that only five or six other applications offirms without much merit in them have been forwarded to	 youin  order that they might have a smooth sailing	 as  againstthose  applicants ". The appellants prayed that	 the  ExciseCommissioner  might  be	 directed  to  forward	all  recordsconcerning  the case to the Chief Commissioner so  that	 thelatter might be able to arrive at a just conclusion and theyasked for a hearing to explain their claim fully.  A copy ofthis  letter  appears to have been endorsed  to	 the  ExciseCommissioner  on  August 13, 1954, by the  Under  Secretary,Finance.   The Excise Commissioner then wrote a	 letter	 No.295/C/54  dated	 August 31, 1954, to  the  Under  Secretary,Finance,  a  copy  of  which was  produced  by	the  learnedSolicitor General at the hearing before us.  In this  letterthe Excise Commissioner explained why the application of theappellants was not considered by him to be a good and properone  and  stated  that reasons why, according  to  him,	 theapplications  of  two , other applicants,  including  MessrsGainda Mall Hem Raj (respondent No. 5), should be given	 thepreference.  In the penultimate paragraph of this letter  ofexplanation it was stated: " In the end it may also be addedthat the applicant has no premises in New Delhi and as	suchhe  had	 no claim.  The license in Form L-2  is	 granted  inrespect of certain premises." The conclusion was that "underthe  circumstances there is no force in the  application  ofMessrs.	  Ghaio	 Mall  and Sons." It is	 apparent  that	 theExcise	Commissioner  did not remember that  the  appellantshad,  by their letter (Ex. 7) of May 21, 1954, addressed  tohim, stated that they had secured suitable premises also  inthe Connaught Place area, New Delhi.  Be that as it may,  onSeptember 11, 1954, the appellants wrote another letter (Ex.9) to the Chief1429Commissioner pressing their claim.  In this letter referencewas  made to their letter to the Excise Commissioner of	 May21,  1954,  (Ex.  7) in which it had been  stated  that	 theappellants  had secured suitable premises in  the  ConnaughtPlace area in New Delhi.  A copy of this letter was sent  tothe  same  Under  Secretary, Finance,  to  whom	 the  ExciseCommissioner  had  written his letter of  August  31,  1954,alleging  that the appellants had no premises in New  Delhi.Exhibit	 9A  is	 the  postal  acknowledgment  by  the  UnderSecretary, Finance, of the letter containing the copy of theappellants'  letter but it does not appear from	 the  recordthat  the Under Secretary, Finance, thought it necessary  toremind	the  Excise Commissioner that  the  appellants	weremaintaining  that they had secured suitable premises in	 NewDelhi.	 This  was followed by a letter (Ex.  10)  from	 theappellants  to	the Excise Commissioner intimating  that  anapplication had been made to the Collector on September	 11,1954,  for a change of their premises for L-1  license	fromKarolbagh,  New Delhi to H. 32 Connaught Circus, New  Delhi.Although this letter had been written in connection with thechange	of L-1 license,, it certainly did specify  that	 theappellants  had secured the premises H-32 Connaught  Circus.The  personal Assistant to the Excise  Commissioner  replied(Ex. 11) that the matter was under consideration.  There wasa  reminder  (Ex.  12) sent to the  Excise  Commissioner  onDecember  8,  1954,  about the change of  L-1  license	fromKarolbagh to Connaught Circus.	It appears from papers,	 forthe  first  time produced before us at the hearing  of	thisappeal, that on September 3, 1954, a note was put up by	 theUnder Secretary, Finance, before the Finance Secretary, ShriS.  K. Mazumdar.  At the forefront of this note we find	 thefollowing  statement: " The applicants (Messrs.	 Ghaio	Malland  Sons) have no premises in Connaught Circus.  For  thesereasons,  if for no other, their claim has to be  rejected."The note concluded with the recommendation that, in case  itwas  decided that the vacancy should be filled,	 the  recom-mendation  of  the Excise Commissioner should  be  accepted,that is to say, the L-2 license should go to1430Messrs.	  Gainda  Mall	Hem  Raj  (Respondent  No.  5).	  OnSeptember 8, 1954, the Finance Secretary simply endorsed thefile  to  the  Chief Minister who, on  September  14,  1954,recorded  the following order on the file: "  Commissioner'srecommendation	may be accepted ". There is nothing  on	 therecord	produced before us to indicate that the	 matter	 wassent  up to the Chief Commissioner or that  his	 concurrencewas obtained under s. 36 of the Government of Part C  StatesAct  (No.  49  of 1951).  On December 14,  1954,  the  UnderSecretary,  Finance,  wrote  to the  Excise  Commissioner  aletter which was for the first time produced at the  hearingbefore	the High Court and to which detailed reference	willbe made hereafter.  On January 15, 1955, the appellants wereinformed  that the change applied for by them in respect  oftheir L-1 license had been allowed.  The appellants were nottold  anything about the rejection of their application	 forL-2  license, but evidently they came to know that  the	 L-2license,  for which a vacancy had arisen on account  of	 theclosure	 of Messrs.  Army and Navy Stores, had been  grantedto  Messrs.   Gainda Mall Hem Raj (respondent  No.  5).	  OnDecember  24,  1954, the appellants wrote severally  to	 theHome  Secretary (Ex. 14) Finance Secretary (Ex. 15) and	 theUnder  Secretary, Finance (Ex. 16) asking for a copy of	 theorder or orders granting license to Messrs.  Gainda Mall HemRaj  and/or rejecting their own application for L-2  foreignliquor	license.   Three postal acknowledgments	 (Exs.	16A,16B, 16C) relating to those three letters are on the record.The appellants got no reply from any of them.Not having received any reply the appellants on December 21,1954, moved the Punjab High Court (Circuit Bench) under Art.226 for appropriate writs or orders, but as it was not	thenquite  clear  whether  the order  granting  the	 license  toMessrs.	  Gainda  Mall Hem Raj had actually been  made,	 theCircuit	 Bench summarily dismissed that writ application  aspremature.   There were proceedings taken by the  appellantsto  obtain leave to appeal first from this Court under	Art.136  which  was adjourned sine die and then  from  the	HighCourt under Art. 133, but it is not necessary1431to go into further details of those proceedings.  After	 theappellants  had definitely ascertained that the L-2  licensehad  been  granted  to Messrs.	Gainda	Mall  Hem  Rai,	 theappellants, instead of proceeding with their application forleave  to appeal to this Court, filed a fresh writ  petitionin  the High Court (Circuit Bench) out of which the  presentappeal has arisen.In the present writ petition the appellants have impleaded 7respondents,  namely, (1) The State of Delhi, (2) The  ChiefMinister, Delhi, (3) -The Excise and Taxation  Commissioner,Delhi, (3 A) Secretary, Delhi State, (3 B) Under  Secretary,Finance,  (4) The Chief Commissioner, Delhi and (5)  Messrs.Gainda	Mall Hem Raj.  The principal ground-, urged  by	 theappellants  in	support of this petition are  that  the	 ap-plications of the appellants and of the other applicants hadnever  been placed before the Chief Commissioner who,  underr.  I  of  Ch. 5 of the Delhi Liquor  License  Rules,  1935,framed	under  s. 59 of the Punjab Excise Act (Punjab  I  of1914),	as  extended  to  Delhi,  was  the  only   competentauthority  empowered to grant L-2 license for wholesale	 andretail	vend  of foreign liquor to the public and  that	 theChief  Commissioner  had  never	 applied  his  mind  to	 theapplications  and  did not in fact make any order  and	thatrespondents   Nos.  2  and  3  had  purported  to   exercisejurisdiction and power which were not vested in them by	 lawand  that their decision, if any, had not received the	con-currence  of  the Chief Commissioner, as  requiried  by	 theproviso	 to  s. 36 of the Government of Part C	States	Act.The  appellants	 pray for the issue  of	 appropriate  writs,orders	or  directions (a) quashing and	 setting  aside	 theorder  of  granting  L-2 license to respondent	No.  5,	 (b)directing  the respondent No. 4 (the Chief Commissioner)  tohold proper enquiry regarding suitability of premises  etc.,to  hear both the parties and to decide the  application  ofthe petitioner before taking tip the application of the	 5threspondent.  There is a prayer in the nature of a prayer forfurther and other reliefs and there is the usual prayer	 forcosts.1821432A Written statement verified by the affidavit of Shri.S.  K.	Majumdar, the Finance Secretary, has been  filed  onbehalf of respondents I to 4. In paragraph 5 of that writtenstatement  it  has been averred that  all  the	applicationsincluding   the	  appellants'  application  were   in	factconsidered;  but  it  is significant that it  has  not	beenstated	by  whom  the  applications  had  been	 considered.Messrs.	  Gainda Mall Hem Raj have filed an  affidavit	onlystating	  that	they  had  been	 informed  that	 the   ChiefCommissioner  had  sanctioned the grant of  the	 license  tothem.	The  appellants, with the leave of the	High  Court,filed  a consolidated affidavit setting out facts  includingthe  fact  that	 although  they	 had  written  to  the	HomeSecretary,  the Finance Secretary and the  Under  Secretary,Finance, asking for a copy of the order granting the licenseto  Messrs.   Gainda Mall Hem Raj, no copy of the  order  oreven a reply to the letters had been received.	In reply  tothe  consolidated fresh affidavit an affidavit	affirmed  bythe Finance Secretary (Shri S. K. Majumdar) has been  filed.In  paragraph 13 of this affidavit it has been stated  that,since  no  appeal  lies	 against  the  order  of  the  ChiefCommissioner, the question of supplying a copy of the  orderto  the appellants does not arise.  Statements of this	kindcannot but leave an impression in the mind of the Court thatthe respondents were not squarely dealing with the case madeby  the appellants, but were evading the production  of	 theorder  of  the	Chief Commissioner which  it  was  obviouslyinsinuated not to have been made at all.  In order to compelthe  respondents to produce the original order, if any,	 theappellants  made an application to the High Court  supportedby  an	affidavit.  Paragraph 2 of the	petition  which	 wasquite precise reads thus:" 2. That with reference to paragraphs 7 & 8 of the  writtenstatement  and paragraphs 10 and 11 of the affidavit of	 theFinance Secretary it is submitted that the respondents	havenot filed any proper return to the rule issued by the  Courtinasmuch  as  the original order sought to be  quashed	withnothings etc., which led to those orders have been  withheldby the1433respondents.  The respondents have not even stated that	 theChief  Commissioner,  Delhi,  who  is  admittedly  the	onlycompetent  authority for the grant of an L-2 license  passedany  orders  himself.  The replies are evasive.	 It  is	 notstated who considered the application of the petitioner i.e.whether	 it was a clerk who was doing the noting or  whetherthe Collector or the Finance Secretary or the Chief Ministerwho did it. "On  this application the High Court on April 11, 1955,	madethe following order:Let  the  order rejecting the  petitioners'  application  bebrought to court by an officer or official of the departmentconcerned."The Finance Secretary filed a reply paragraph 3 of which wasin the term-, following:" 3. That I have carefully gone through the relevant papers.The case of the petitioner was considered along with that ofother  applicants  and it was finally decided to  issue	 thelicense	 in favour of Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj.  It	 wasnot considered necessary to send an intimation of  rejectionto  all	 those	who  had not been  granted  the	 license  inquestion.   There is therefore no specific  order  rejectingthe  petitioner's application as ordered to be	produced  bythe Hon'ble Court."Although it was obvious what order of the Chief Commissionerthe  appellants	 were  insisting  on  being  produced,	 therespondents  were prompt in taking advantage of the  wordingof  the High Court's order directing the production  of	 theorder rejecting the appellants' application and stated	thatthere  was  no	specific  order	 rejecting  the	 appellants'application.   This is nothing short of what may  be  calledswearing by the card.  The deponent overlooks the fact	thatthe  order granting the license to Messrs.  Gainda Mall	 HemRaj  was  in  effect  tantamount  to  a	 rejection  of	 theappellants'  application.   The appellants  moved  the	HighCourt  again  on  August 8, 1955.   After  stating  how	 therespondents  were evading the real issue, the appellants  inparagraph 5 of the petition categorically1434stated	that  their case was that  the	Chief  Commissioner,Delhi,	the  competent authority, had not passed  any  ordersanctioning  the license in favour of Messrs.	Gainda	MallHem Raj and prayed that the respondents be directed to	filethe  original  record  of  the	case  including	 the  actualsanction  for  the grant of the license to  Messrs.   GaindaMall  Hem  Raj.	 On August 19, 1955, the Court	ordered	 therelevant  records  to  be called for.  The  only  thing	 therespondents  could,  at long last, produce before  the	HighCourt was the letter of the Under Secretary, Finance, to theExcise	Commissioner  dated  December  14,  1954,  to  whichreference has already been made.Learned	 Solicitor-General appearing for respondents 1 to  4pointed out that the order which is sought to be quashed wasthe  grant of L-2 license for the year 1954/1955  which	 haslong  expired  and  suggested that  the	 writ  petition	 andconsequently the appeal had become infructuous.	 It  appearsthat  the  usual  practice in such matters is  that  once  alicense in Form L-2 is granted by the Chief Commissioner, itis  almost automatically renewed by the Collector from	yearto year, unless, of course, the licensee is found guilty  ofbreach of any excise rule and that in such cases of  renewalthere  arises no question of vacancy entitling	any  outsidecompetitor  to apply for a license in Form L-2.	 That  beingthe  position-and  this	 is not	 in  dispute-it	 is  vitallyimportant  for	the appellants that we should  consider	 thevalidity  of the grant of the L-2 licence for  1954/1955  toMessrs.	  Gainda  Mall Hem Raj, for in case of	our  holdingthat the order granting the same was a nullity on account ofits  not  having been made by the competent  authority,	 thevacancy	 caused by the closure of business by Messrs.	Armyand  Navy Stores will still remain to be filled up  and	 theappellants   will  yet	have  a	 chance	 of   having   theirapplication  considered	 by  the  competent  authority.	  Weaccordingly proceeded to hear the appeal on merits.The  principal question urged before us, as before the	HighCourt,	is whether the Chief Commissioner of Delhi made	 anyorder under r. 1 of Ch. 5 of the Delhi1435Liquor License Rules, 1935.  It is significant that althoughthe  Chief Minister, the Excise Commissioner, the  Secretaryof Delhi State, the Under Secretary, Finance, and the  ChiefCommissioner have been impleaded in the present	 proceedingsas  respondents	 Nos. 2, 3, 3A, 3B and	4  respectively	 andalthough they or at least some of them could have deposed tothe material facts of their own personal knowledge, none  ofthem  ventured	to  file  an  affidavit	 dealing  with	 thecategorical statement of the appellants that no order had atany  time been made by the Chief Commissioner  for  grantingthe L-2 license to Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj or rejectingthe appellants' application.  Instead of adopting the simpleand  straight  forward	way  these  respondents	 have  takenrecourse  to  putting  up  the	Finance	 Secretary  to	giveobviously evasive replies which are wholly unconvincing.  Itis needless to say that the adoption of such dubious devicesis not calculated to produce a favourable impression on	 themind  of the court as to the good faith of  the	 authoritiesconcerned in the matter.  We must also point out that when asuperior   court  issues  a  rule  on  an  application	 forcertiorari  it	is incumbent OD the inferior  court  or	 thequasi-judicial	body,  to  whom the rule  is  addressed,  toproduce	 the entire records before the court along with	 itsreturn.	  The  whole object of a writ of  certiorari  is  tobring  up the records of the inferior court or other  quasi-judicial body for examination by the superior court so	thatthe  latter may be satisfied that the inferior court or	 thequasi-judicial body has not gone beyond its jurisdiction andhas  exercised its jurisdiction within the limits  fixed  bythe  law.  Non-production of the records completely  defeatsthe  purpose for which such writs are issued, as it  did  inthe  present  case  before  the	 High  Court.	We  stronglydeprecate   this  attempt  on  the  part  of  the   officialrespondents to bye-pass the court.  We are bound to  observethat the facts appearing on the records before us disclose astate  of affairs which does not reflect any credit  on	 theadministration	of the erstwhile State of Delhi.   We  must,however, say, in fairness to the learned  Solicitor-General,that he promptly produced1436the  entire  records before us during the  hearing  of	thisappeal.As already stated the principal question, on which argumentshave been addressed to us, is whether the Chief Commissionerhad  made any order for granting the L-2 license to  Messrs.Gainda	Mall Hem Raj.  The High Court answered the  questionin  the	 affirmative on two grounds, namely,  (1)  that	 theFinance	 Secretary  had made an affidavit stating  that	 thedecision  regarding  the  grant of the	license	 to  Messrs.Gainda	 Mall	Hem  Raj  had  been  taken  by	 the   ChiefCommissioner,  and  (2) that the learned  Solicitor  Generalstated	in specific terms that the matter had in  fact	beendecided by the Chief Commissioner.  On the facts as they nowemerge	it appears to us that the High Court was under	somemisapprehension	 on  both  these points.   We  have  alreadysummarised all the statements and affidavits affirmed by theFinance Secretary and it is quite clear that the only  thingthat  he  did not say was that the  Chief  Commissioner	 hadconsidered the applications or made any order.	The  learnedSolicitor General, with his usual fairness, also informed usthat except relying on the letter of December 14, 1954,	 liedid  not  say  that the Chief  Commissioner  had  taken	 anydecision in the matter.	 This being the position we are freeto go into the matter and come to our own decision thereon.The records, including the documents now produced before us,do  not	 show  that the applications had  ever	been  placedbefore	the  Chief Commissioner.  There is  nothing  in	 thefiles  showing	any  order or note on the  subject  made  orsigned	or  initialled	by  the	 Chief	Commissioner.	Whattranspires  is that the Excise Commissioner (respondent	 No.3)  had	 by his letter dated August 31, 1954,  recorded	 thereasons	 why  the  appellants'	applications  could  not  beentertained,  one  of  the reasons being that  they  had  nopremises  in the Connaught Place area in New Delhi,  that  anote  was  then put up by the Under Secretary,	Finance,  onSeptember   3,	 1954,	suggesting  that   the	 appellants'application  should  be rejected, if for nothing  else,	 fortheir not having any premises in New Delhi (which1437according  to the appellants was not a correct statement  inview  of their letters referred to above) and that  the	 L-2license	 should be granted to Messrs. Gainda Mall  Hem	Raj,that the Chief Minister on September 14, 1954, made an orderon   the  file	accordingly  and  finally  that	 the   UnderSecretary,  Finance,  wrote the letter 'dated  December	 14,1954,  to the Excise Commissioner intimating that the  ChiefCommissioner  had been pleased to approve the grant  of	 thelicense	 to Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj.  There is  nothingon the record to show that the concurrence with the order ofthe Chief Minister was obtained from the Chief Commissioner.The  inexorable force of the aforesaid facts, now  appearingon the record, inevitably led the learned Solicitor  Generalto  concede  that,  on the records as they are,	 it  is	 notpossible  for  him to say that the  Chief  Commissioner	 hadactually  made the order, but he contends that, in view	 -ofthe  letter of the Under Secretary, Finance, dated  December14, 1954, the fact that the Chief Commissioner had made	 theorder could not be questioned in any court.  In other  wordsthe  learned  Solicitor	 General submits  that	that  letterembodies  the order of the Chief Commissioner and the  courtcannot	be  asked to go behind it and  enquire	whether	 theChief Commissioner had in fact made the order.In order to succeed in this contention the learned SolicitorGeneral has to satisfy us that this letter is the embodimentof the Chief Commissioner's order and that it has been	dulyauthenticated.	On the second point he is clearly right, forunder  a  rule 'Made on March 17, 1952, by  the	 then  ChiefCommissioner,  in exercise of powers conferred on him by  s.38(3)  of the Government of Part C States Act (49 of  1951),an  Under  Secretary is also a person competent	 to  authen-ticate	an order or instrument of the Government  of  Delhi.The only question that remains for us to consider is whetherthe   letter  in  question  is	the  order  of	 the   ChiefCommissioner.  The letter on which the entire defence of therespondents rests is expressed in the following words:1438	  "DELHI STATE SECRETARIAT,		 DELHI STATENo. F. 10(139)/54-G A & R	    Dated the			     14th December, 54.FromShri M. L. Batra, M. A., P. C. S.,Under  Secretary Finance (Expenditure) to Government,  DelhiState.ToShri Dalip Singh, M. A., 1. R. S., Commissioner of Excise,Delhi State,Delhi.Subject:-Grant of L-2 License.Sir,With  reference to your letter No. 295/C/54 dated  the	31stAugust,	 1954,	on the above subject, I am directed  to	 saythat the Chief Commissioner is pleased to approve under Rule5.  1.	of Delhi Excise Manual Vol. 11 the grant  of  L-2  'license to Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj, New Delhi, in placeof  the	 L-2  License surrendered by Messrs.   Army  &	NavyStores,	 New Delhi.  Necessary License may kindly be  issuedto  the	 party	concerned under intimation  to	this  Secre-tariate.	      Yours faithfully,	     (Sd.). M. L. Batra,       Under Secretary, Finance (Exp.)	 to Government, Delhi State."In  the	 first	place  it  is  an  inter-departmental	com-munication.   In  the  second  place  it  is  written	withreference  to  an earlier communication made by	 the  ExciseCommissioner, that is to say, ex facie, it purports to be  areply  to  the latter's letter of August 31, 1954.   In	 thethird  place  the writer quite candidly states that  he	 hadbeen  "	 directed  to say " something by  whom,	 it  is	 notstated.	 This makes it quite clear that this document is notthe order of the Chief Commissioner but only purports to  bea  communication at the direction of some unknown  person-ofthe order which1439the  Chief Commissioner had made.  Indeed in paragraph 7  ofthe  respondents'  statement  filed in	the  High  Court  onFebruary  2,1955,  this	 letter has been stated	 to  have  "conveyed the sanction of the Chief Commissioner of the grantof license to the 5th respondent ". A document which conveysthe sanction can hardly be equated with the sanction  itselfFinally the document does not purport to have been authenti-cated  in the form in which authentication is usually  made.There  is no statement at the end of the letter that it	 hasbeen written " by order of the Chief Commissioner ". For allthese reasons it is impossible to read this document as	 theorder of the Chief Commissioner.Learned	 counsel for Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj relied  onour decision in Dattatreya Moreshwar Pangarkar v. The  Stateof Bombay (1).	In that case there was ample evidence on therecord	to prove that a decision had in fact been  taken  bythe  appropriate authority and the infirmity in the form  ofthe authentication did not vitiate the order but only  meantthat  the presumption could not be availed of by the  State.That decision did not proceed on the correctness of the formof authentication but on the fact of an order having in factbeen  made  by	the appropriate authority and  has  thus  noapplication  to the present case where it is  conceded	thatthe Chief Commissioner had not in fact made or concurred  inthe  making  of	 an order granting the	license	 to  Messrs.Gainda Mall Hem Raj.In  the	 view we have taken it is not necessary	 for  us  toconsider  whether the action taken under the Excise Act	 andthe rules thereunder was a judicial or an executive  action,for  even  if it were of the latter category the  letter  ofDecember  14, 1954, cannot be treated as an  order  properlyauthenticated to which the presumption raised by Art. 166 ofthe  Constitution will attach.	For reasons stated above  wehold that there was no valid order granting the L-2  licenseto  Messrs.  Gainda Mall Hem Raj and that in the eye of	 thelaw the vacancy arising on the closure of the(1) (1952) S.C.R. 612.1831440business  by  Messrs.  Army and Navy  Stores  still  remainsunfilled.   The	 applications of the  appellants  and  otherapplicants  were for a grant of L-2 license for 1954/  1955.That  year  has	 gone past and accordingly  in	the  changedcircumstances  we direct the Chief Commissioner to  fill  upthe vacancy caused by the closure of the business by Messrs.Army and Navy Stores by inviting applications from intendinglicensees including the appellants and Messrs.	Gainda	MallHem  Raj and granting the same to the most  suitable  party.We, therefore, accept this appeal, reverse the order of	 theHigh Court and issue a mandamus to the effect aforesaid	 andalso  direct  the  respondents	Nos.  1	 to  4	to  pay	 theappellants'  costs of this appeal and of the proceedings  inthe High Court out of which this appeal has arisen.  Messrs.Gainda Mall Hem Raj are to bear their own costs throughout.Appeal allowed.