PETITIONER:R. P. KAPUR	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF PUNJABDATE OF JUDGMENT:25/03/1960BENCH:SHAH, J.C.BENCH:SHAH, J.C.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.(CJ)IMAM, SYED JAFFERSARKAR, A.K.GUPTA, K.C. DASCITATION: 1960 AIR  862		  1960 SCR  (3) 311 CITATOR INFO : R	    1975 SC 706	 (16)ACT:Criminal  Trial--Quashing of Proceedings -Inherent power  ofHigh   Court--When   to	 be  exercised--Code   of   CriminalProcedure, 1898 (V of 1898), s. 561-A.HEADNOTE:One  S lodged a first information report against K.  When  Kfound  that  no action was taken on the report	for  severalmonths	he filed a criminal complaint against  S  contendingthat the report lodged by S was false.	At the instance of Sthe magistrate ordered K's complaint to stand adjourned tillthe  police made its final report on the  first	 informationreport.	 Thereupon K moved the High Court under s. 561 -A ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure for quashing the	 proceedingsinitiated  by  the first information  report.	Pending	 thehearing the police submitted its report under s. 173 of	 theCode.	Subsequently the High Court dismissed the  petition.K obtained special leave and appealed:Held   that  no case for quashing the proceedings  was	madeout.  The inherent 'Jurisdiction of the High Court could  beexercised  to quash proceedings in a proper case  either  toprevent	 the abuse of the process of any Court or  otherwiseto  secure  the	 ends of justice.  The	following  are	somecategories  of cases where the inherent	 jurisdiction  couldand should be exercised to quash proceedings:(i)  where there was a legal bar against the institution  orcontinuance of the proceedings;(ii)  where the allegations in the first information  reportor complaint   did not make out the offence alleged; and(iii)where  either  there was no legal evidence	 adduced  insupport	 of  the charge or the evidence adduced	 clearly  ormanifestly failed to prove the charge.In  exercising its jurisdiction under s. 561-A of  the	Codethe  High Court cannot embark upon an enquiry as to  whetherthe evidence in the case is reliable or not . In the presentcase  there  was  no legal bar to  the	institution  of	 theproceedings or to their continuance; the allegations made inthe  first  information report did constitute  the  offencesalleged	 and it could not be contended that on the  face  ofthe record the charge was unsustainable.In re: Shripad G. Chandavarkar, A.I.R. 1928 Bom. 184,  jagatChandra	 Mozumdar  v. Queen Empress, (1899) I.L.R.  26	Cal.786,  Dr.  Shankar Singh v. The State of Punjab,  (1954)  56Punj.	L.W.  54, Nripendra Bhusan Ray	v.   Govind  BhandhuMajumdar,  A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 1018 and Ramanathan Chettiar  v.K.  Sivarama Subrahmanya Ayyar, (1924) I.L.R. 47  Mad.	722,referred to.S.P. Jaiswal v. The State, (1953) 55 Punj.  L.R. 77, distin-guished,389JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 217  of1959.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  10,	1959 of the Punjab High	 Court	in  CriminalMisc.  No. 559 of 1959.Appellant in person.S.   M.	 Sikri,	 Advocate-General for the State	 of  Punjab,Mohinder Singh Punnan, T. M. Sen and D. Gupta,	  for	 therespondent.1960.  March 25.  The Judgment of the Court wasdelivered byGAJENDRAGADKAR,	 J.-On	December 10, 1958, Mr. M.  L.  Sethilodged a First Information Report against the appellant	 Mr.R.  P. Kapur and alleged that he and his mother-in-law	Mrs.Kaushalya Devi had committed offences under ss. 420-109, 114and 120B of the Indian Penal Code.  When the appellant foundthat  for several months no further action was taken on	 thesaid First Information Report which was hanging like a swordover  his  head he filed a criminal complaint on  April	  1,1959,  against Mr. Sethi under ss. 204, 211 and 385  of	 theIndian	Penal  Code and thus took upon himself the  onus  toprove that -&he First Information Report lodged by Mr. Sethiwas  false.  On the said complaint Mr. Sethi moved that	 theproceedings  in question should be stayed as the police	 hadnot  made any report on the First Information Report  lodgedby  him and that the case started by him was  still  pendingwith  the  police.   After  hearing  arguments	the  learnedMagistrate  ordered  that the appellant's  complaint  shouldstand adjourned.Thereupon the appellant moved the Punjab High Court under s.561  -A of the Code of Criminal Procedure for  quashing	 theproceedings  initiated	by the First Information  Report  inquestion.   Pending the hearing of the said petition in	 thesaid High Court the police report was submitted under s. 173of  the Code on July 25, 1959.	Subsequently,  on  September10, 1959, Mr. Justice Capoor heard the appellant's  petitionand  held  that no case had been made out for  quashing	 theproceedings  under s.561-A. In the result the  petition	 wasdismissed.  It is against this order that the appellant	 hascome to this Court by special leave,50390The  material facts leading to the proceedings	against	 theappellant lie within a very narrow compass.  It appears thatin  January 1957 the mother-in-law of the appellant and	 hiswife  entered into an agreement with the owners	 of  certainlands  in village Mohammadpur Munirka to purchase  lands  atRs. 5 per sq. yd.  Earnest money was accordingly paid to thevendors and it was agreed that the sale had to be  completedby  April 13, 1957; by consent this period was	extended  toJune 13, 1957.	Meanwhile, on March 8,	1957,  notificationswere  issued by the Chief Commissioner under ss. 4 and 6  ofthe  Land Acquisition Act, 1894, for acquiring	considerablearea  of  land	which included the lands  belonging  to	 thevendors;  this	acquisition  was intended  for	the  housingscheme	of the Ministry of Works, Housing and Supply in	 theGovernment  of India.  The proposed acquisition was  treatedas one of urgency and so under s. 17 of the Acquisition	 Actpossession of the land was taken by the Collector on June 8,1957.  Some of the persons concerned in the said lands filedobjections against the validity of the action taken under s.17.   It was under these circumstances that the	 sale  deedswere  executed	by the vendors in favour of  Mrs.  KaushalyaDevi and certain other vendees on June 12, 1957.  It appearsthat  the  vendees  presented their claim  before  the	LandAcquisition Collector and an award has been made in  Septem-ber  1958  by  which Mrs. Kaushalya Devi  has  been  allowedcompensation at Rs. 3-8-0 per sq. yd.  That is how the titleof the lands in question passed to Mrs. Kaushalya Devi.The First Information Report filed by Mr. Sethi alleges thathe  and	 the  appellant were friends  and  that	 on  January4,1958,	 the appellant dishonestly and fraudulently  advisedhim-to	purchase 2,000 sq. yds. of land in Khasra  Nos.	 22,23,  24 and 25 in the aforesaid village Mohammadpur  Munirkaon the representation that as owner of the land in the	areaMr. Sethi would get a plot of desired dimensions in the samearea  developed	 by the Ministry under its  housing  scheme.The  appellant also represented to Mr. Sethi,  according  tothe First Information Report, that since under the scheme noperson would, be allotted more than one391plot he would have to surrender a part of his land; that  iswhy  as	 a friend he was prepared to give to Mr.  Sethi	 oneplot at the price at which it had been purchased.  Accordingto Mr. Sethi the appellant dictated an application which  hewas  advised  to send to the Secretary of  the	Ministry  ofWorks  and  he accordingly sent it as  advised.	  The  FirstInformation  Report further alleges that the  appellant	 hadassured	 Mr. Sethi that the land had been purchased  by	 hismother-in-law  at  Rs.	10  per	 sq.  yd.   Acting  on	thisrepresentation Mr. Sethi paid Rs. 10,000 by cheque drawn  infavour	of  Mrs. Kaushalya Devi on January  6,	1958.	Thischeque	has been cashed.  Subsequently a draft of  the	saledeed was sent by the appellant to Mr. Sethi in the beginningof  March  1958 and on March 6, 1958, a further sum  of	 Rs.10,000	was paid by cheque.  The draft was duly returned  tothe  appellant	with a covering letter in  which  Mr.  Sethistated	that  he would have liked to add one clause  to	 thedeed to the effect that in the event of the authorities	 notaccepting the sale for the purpose of allotment, the  amountof  Rs. 20,000 would be refunded to him; and  he  expressed,the  hope that even if the said clause was not	included  inthe  document the appellant would accept it.  The sale	deedin favour of Mr. Sethi was registered on March 21, 1958.  Itis  this  transaction  which has given	rise  to  the  FirstInformation Report in question.Broadly stated the First Information Report is based on fourmaterial allegations about fraudulent misrepresentation.  Itis alleged that the appellant fraudulently misrepresented toMr. Sethi that the land had been purchased at Rs. 10 per sq.yd.;  that  the appellant fraudulently	concealed  from	 Mr.Sethi  the  pendency  of the  proceedings  before  the	LandAcquisition Collector, Delhi, and of the acquisition of	 thesaid  property	under s. 17 of the said Act;  he  also	madesimilar fraudulent misrepresentations as regards the  schemeof  housing  to	 which he referred.  As a  result  of  thesemisrepresentations  Mr. Sethi entered into  the	 transactionand parted with Rs. 20,000.  That in brief is the nature  ofthe  complaint	made by Mr. Sethi in his  First	 InformationReport.	  The appellant urged before the Punjab	 High  Courtthat the case started against392him by the First Information Report should be quashed  unders.  561-A of the Code.	The Punjab High Court  has  rejectedthe  appellant's contention.  The question which arises	 forour  decision in the present appeal is: Was the Punjab	HighCourt  in  error  in  refusing	to  exercise  its   inherentjurisdiction  under  s.561 -A of the Code in favour  of	 theappellant ?Before dealing with the merits of the appeal it is necessaryto  consider the nature and scope of the inherent  power  ofthe  High  Court  under s. 561 -A of  the  Code.   The	saidsection	 saves the inherent power of the High Court to	makesuch orders as may be necessary to give effect to any  orderunder  this Code or to prevent abuse of the process  of	 anycourt or otherwise to secure the ends of justice.  There  isno  doubt  that this inherent power cannot be  exercised  inregard	 to  matters  specifically  covered  by	 the   otherprovisions of the Code.	 In the present case the  magistratebefore whom the police report has been filed under s. 173 ofthe  Code has yet not applied his mind to the merits of	 thesaid report and it may be assumed in favour of the appellantthat his request for the quashing of the .proceedings is notat  the present stage covered by any specific  provision  ofthe   Code.   It  is  well-established	that  the   inherentjurisdiction  of  the High Court can be exercised  to  quashproceedings in a proper case either to prevent the abuse  ofthe process of any court or otherwise to secure the ends  ofjustice.  Ordinarily criminal proceedings instituted againstan accused person must be tried under the provisions of	 theCode,  and  the High Court would be reluctant  to  interferewith the said proceedings at an interlocutory stage.  It  isnot  possible,	desirable  or  expedient  to  lay  down	 anyinflexible  rule  which would govern the  exercise  of	thisinherent  jurisdiction.	  However,  we	may  indicate	somecategories of cases where the inherent jurisdiction can	 andshould be exercised for quashing the proceedings.  There maybe cases where it may be possible for the High Court to takethe  view  that the institution or continuance	of  criminalproceedings  against  an accused person may  amount  to	 theabuse  of the process of the court or that the	quashing  ofthe impugned proceedings would secure the ends of393justice.   If  the  criminal proceeding in  question  is  inrespect	 of an offence alleged to have been committed by  anaccused	 person	 and it manifestly appears that there  is  alegal bar against the institution or continuance of the saidproceeding the High Court would be justified in quashing theproceeding  on	that  ground.	Absence	 of  the   requisitesanction  may,	for  instance,	furnish	 cases	under	thiscategory.  Cases may also arise where the a11egations in theFirst Information Report or the complaint, even if they	 aretaken at their face value and accepted in their entirety, donot  constitute the offence alleged; in such cases no  ques-tion of appreciating evidence arises; it is a matter  merelyof looking at the complaint or the First Information  Reportto  decide whether the offence alleged is disclosed or	not.In  such cases it would be legitimate for the High Court  tohold that it would be manifestly unjust to allow the processof  the	 criminal  court to be issued  against	the  accusedperson.	  A  third category of cases in which  the  inherentjurisdiction  of the High Court can be successfully  invokedmay  also arise.  In cases falling under this  category	 theallegations made against the accused person do constitute anoffence	 alleged  but  there is	 either	 no  legal  evidenceadduced	 in support of the case or evidence adduced  clearlyor  manifestly fails to prove the charge.  In  dealing	withthis  class  of cases it is important to bear  in  mind	 thedistinction between a case where there is no legal  evidenceor  where there is evidence which is manifestly and  clearlyinconsistent with the accusation made and cases where  thereis  legal evidence which on its appreciation may or may	 notsupport	 the  accusation  in question.	 In  exercising	 itsjurisdiction under s. 561-A the High Court would not  embarkupon  an enquiry as to whether the evidence in	question  isreliable  or not.  That is the function of the trial  magis-trate,	and ordinarily it would not be open to any party  toinvoke	the High Court's inherent jurisdiction and'  contendthat  on  a  reasonable appreciation  of  the  evidence	 theaccusation made against the accused would not be  sustained.Broadly stated that is the nature and scope of the  inherentjurisdiction of the High Court under s. 561-A in the  matterof quashing394criminal proceedings, and that is the effect of the judicialdecisions on the point (Vide: In Re: Shripad G. Chandavarkar(1),  Jagat  Ohandra  Mozumdar v. Queen Empress	 (2  ),	 Dr.Shanker Singh v. The State of Punjab (3 ), Nripendra  BhusanRay  v. Govind Bandhu Majumdar(4 ) and Ramanathan  Chettiyarv. K. Sivarama Subrahmanya Ayyar (5).)Mr.  Kapur, who argued his own case with ability before	 us,strongly relied on the decision of the Punjab High Court  inS. P. Jaiswal v. The State & Anr. (6) and contended that  inthe  interest of justice and in order to  avoid	 unnecessaryharassment  to him we should ourselves examine the  evidenceon record and decide whether the said evidence can  possiblylead  to his conviction.  In that case Jaiswal	was  chargedwith  having committed offences under's. 147 and s.  452  ofthe  Code and it does appear from the judgment of  the	HighCourt that the learned judge elaborately considered all	 theevidence  on  which the prosecution relied and came  to	 theconclusion  that the proceedings taken against	Jaiswal	 andhis  co-accused	 should be quashed.  It is,  however,  clearfrom  the  judgment  that the learned judge  was  very	muchimpressed  by  the fact that the police	 had  reported	thatthere  was no case or at the most only a  technical  offenceagainst	 Jaiswal but the district magistrate had  interferedwith  the statutory duty of the police and had directed	 thepolice	officer concerned to prosecute him.  On these  factsthe  learned judge was inclined to take the view that  therewas  a	violation  of the fundamental  right  guaranteed  toJaiswal under Art. 21 of the Constitution.  Besides, in	 theopinion	 of  the  learned judge the evidence  on  which	 theprosecution relied showed that the essential ingredients  ofthe  offence charged were missing " and the very  essentialswere  non-existent".   It  is on  these	 findings  that	 thecriminal  proceedings against Jaiswal were quashed.   It  isunnecessary  for  us to consider  .whether  the	 fundamentalright  guaranteed under Art. 21 had really been	 contravenedor  not.  We have merely referred to the  relevant  findingsrecorded by(1)  A.I.R. 1928 Bom. 184.(2)  (1954) 56 Punjab L.R. 54.(3)  (1924) I.L.R. 27 Mad. 722.(4)  (1899) I.L.R. 26 Cal. 786.(5)  A.I.R. 1924 Cal. 1018.(6)  (1953) 55 Punjab L.R 77.395the  learned judge in order to emphasise the fact that	thisdecision cannot be read as an authority for the	 propositionthat an accused person can approach the High Court under  s.561-A  of  the Code and ask it to  appreciate  the  evidenceadduced	 against  him and quash the proceedings in  case  itthought	 that the said evidence did not justify the  charge.In  fact,  in dealing with the case the	 learned  judge	 hashimself	 approved  of  the  several  decisions	which	haveconstrued the nature and scope of the inherent	jurisdictionunder  s. 561-A and so the decision must be confined to	 thebasic findings recorded by the learned judge in that case.This being the true legal position the question which  fallsfor  our decision is: Does the appellant show that his	casefalls under any of the three categories already mentioned byus.  There is no legal bar to the institution of the presentproceedings or their continuance, and it is obvious that theallegations   made  in	the  First  Information	 Report	  doconstitute  offences  alleged against  the  appellant.	 Hisargument,  however, is that the evidence on  record  clearlyand  unambiguously  shows that the allegations made  in	 theFirst Information Report are untrue; he also contends that "certain powerful influences have been operating against	 himwith  a	 view  to  harm him and	 debar	him  officially	 andotherwise  and	have instigated and later  seized  upon	 thefalse  First Information Report filed by Mr.  Sethi  againsthim".	In this connection he has naturally placed  emphasison  the	 fact that the investigating agency has	 acted	withextraordinary  dilatoriness  in	 the  matter  and  that	 forseveral	 months the police did not make the report under  s.173 of the Code.It  is true that though the complaint against the  appellantis  essentially	 very  simple  in  its	nature	the   policeauthorities  did  not  make their report  for  nearly  sevenmonths	after the First Information Report was	lodged.	  Wehave already indicated how the appellant was driven to file.a complaint on his own charging Mr. Sethi with having  fileda  false First Information Report against him, and  how	 theReport	in question was filed after the appellant moved	 theHigh396Court  by his present petition under s. 561-A.	It  is	verymuch  to be deplored that the police officers concerned	 didnot act diligently in this matter, and it is not  surprisingthat  this unusual delay has given rise to the	apprehensionin  the mind of the appellant that the object of  the  delaywas  to	 keep  the sword hanging over his head	as  long  aspossible.  It is perhaps likely that the appellant being thesenior-most  Commissioner  in the punjab  the  investigatingauthorities may have been cautious and circumspect in takingfurther	 steps on the First Information Report; but  we	 aresatisfied  that	 this  explanation cannot  account  for	 theinordinate delay made in submitting the report under s. 173.It is of utmost importance that investigation into  criminaloffences must always be free from any objectionable featuresor infirmities which may legitimately lead to the  grievanceof the accused that the work of investigation is carried  onunfairly  or  with  any	 ulterior motive.   Even  so  it  isdifficult to see how this conduct on the part of the  policeofficers  can materially assist the appellant in his  prayerthat  the  proceedings which have now reached  the  criminalcourt should be quashed.We must, therefore, now proceed to consider the	 appellant'scase that the evidence on record is demonstrably against theallegation of Mr. Sethi that he was induced by the appellantto  part  with	Rs.  20,000  as	 a  result  of	the  severalmisrepresentations alleged in the First Information  Report.He  contends  that the principal allegation against  him  istwo-fold,  that	 he fraudulently and  dishonestly  concealedfrom  Mr.  Sethi any information about the pendency  of	 theproceedings  before  the  Collector,  and  fraudulently	 re-presented to him that the land had been purchased at Rs.  10per   sq.   yd.	  According  to	 the   appellant,   if	 thecorrespondence	 on  the  record  is  considered,  and	 thestatements made by Mr. Sethi and his wife and their  conductat  the	 material  time are taken  into	 account,  it  wouldirresistibly show that the whole story about the  fraudulentmisrepresentations  is untrue.	The appellant has  taken  usThrough	 the relevant correspondence and as referred  us  tothe  statements	 and  the conduct of the  parties.   We	 areanxious not to express397any  opinion on this part of the appellant's argument.	 Allwe wish to say is that we would inevitably have to  considerthe  evidence  ourselves  and to  appreciate  it  before  wepronounce  any opinion on the validity or otherwise  of	 theargument.   It is not a case where the appellant can  justlycontend that on the face of the re. cord the charge levelledagainst	 him is unsustainable.	The appellant no doubt	verystrongly feels that on the relevant evidence it would not bereasonably  possible  to sustain the charge but	 that  is  amatter	on  which  the appellant will have  to	satisfy	 themagistrate  who	 takes cognisance of the  case.	  We  would,however, like to emphasise that in rejecting the appellant'sprayer	for  quashing the proceedings at this stage  we	 areexpressing no opinion one way or the other on the merits  ofthe case.There  is  another consideration which has  weighed  in	 ourminds  in dealing with this appeal.  The appellant has	cometo this Court under Art. 136 of the Constitution against thedecision  of the Punjab High Court; and the High  Court	 hasrefused	 to exercise its inherent jurisdiction in favour  ofthe  appellant.	  Whether or not we would have come  to	 thesame conclusion if we were dealing with the matter ourselvesunder  s. 561-A is not really very material because  in	 thepresent case what we have to decide is whether the  judgmentunder  appeal  is  erroneous in law so as to  call  for	 ourinterference  under  Art. 136.	Under the  circumstances  ofthis case we are unable to answer this question in favour ofthe appellant.Appeal dismissed.