PETITIONER:BASHESHAR NATH	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE COMMISSIONER OF INCOME-TAX,DELHI & RAJASTHAN & ANOTHER.DATE OF JUDGMENT:19/11/1958BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.DAS, S.K.KAPUR, J.L.SUBBARAO, K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  149		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 528 CITATOR INFO : R	    1960 SC1080	 (24) E&R	    1960 SC1125	 (26) R	    1961 SC1457	 (6) RF	    1962 SC  92	 (6,11) MV	    1966 SC1089	 (54) RF	    1967 SC1643	 (14) E	    1970 SC 898	 (60) RF	    1973 SC1461	 (311,313,405,447,533,1693,1933 RF	    1975 SC1121	 (18) RF	    1975 SC2299	 (344,528) R	    1976 SC1207	 (157,516) RF	    1977 SC1496	 (18) RF	    1979 SC  25	 (40) RF	    1980 SC1362	 (24) RF	    1981 SC 679	 (12) R	    1986 SC 180	 (29) D	    1987 SC 925	 (13) RF	    1990 SC1480	 (52) C	    1991 SC 101	 (257)ACT:Income-tax-Evasion    of    taxation-Case    referred	  toInvestigation  Commission-Commencement of the  Constitution-Settlement  of case --Constitutional validity  of-Waiver  offundamental   right,  if  permissible-Taxation	 of   Income(Investigation	Commission) Act, 1947 (30 Of 1947),  s.	 8A-Constitution of India, Art. 14, Part III.HEADNOTE:The two questions for determination in this appeal were, (1)whether	 a settlement under s. 8A of the Taxation of  Income(Investigation Commission) Act, 1947 (30 Of 1947) made afterthe  commencement of the Constitution  was  constitutionallyvalid and (2) whether the waiver of a fundamental right	 waspermissible  under the Constitution.  The  appellant's	casewas  on	 July 22, 1948, referred by the	 Central  Governmentunder  S. 5(1) of the Act to the  Investigation	 Commission.for  investigation and report.	The Commission directed	 theauthorised  official  under s. 6 of the Act to	examine	 theappellant's accounts.  He submitted his final report by	 theend of 1953.  The Commission considered the report heard theassessee  and came to the conclusion that Rs.  4,47,915	 hadescaped	 assessment.   Thereupon the appellant	on  May	 20,1954, applied to the Commission for a settlement of his caseunder s. 8A of the Act, agreeing to pay Rs. 3,50,000 by	 wayof tax and penalty at the concessional rate.  The Commissionreported   to  the  Central  Government	 approving  of	 thesettlement,  the Central Government accepted it and  it	 wasrecorded by the Commission.  The Central Government directedthe  recovery of the said amount under s. 8A(2) of the	Act.The  appellant	was permitted to make  payments	 by  monthlyinstalments  of Rs. 5,000 and the total amount thus paid  upto  September 8, 1957, aggregated to Rs. 1,28,000.   In	 themeantime  the  Income Tax Officer issued a  certificate	 andcertain properties of the appellant were attached.   Relyingon  the decisions of this Court in Suraj Mall Mohta and	 Co.v.  A. V. Visvanatha Sastri, [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448 and M.	 Ct.Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, [1955]  2S.C.R.	1247, the appellant applied to the  Commissioner  ofIncome-tax  challenging the validity of the settlement	madeunder s. 8A of the Act on the ground that S. 5(1) Of the Acton  which  it  was founded had been declared  void  by	thisCourt,	and  claimed that his properties might	be  releasedfrom  attachment  and the amount paid under  the  settlementmight  be  refunded  to	 him.,	On  January  29,  1958,	 theCommissioner  of  Income Tax sent a reply to  the  appellantmaintaining that the settlement was valid and		    529that  the  appellant  was bound thereunder  to	pay  up	 thearrears of instalments and requesting him to continue to payin  future.   Against this decision of the  Commissioner  ofIncome	Tax the. appellant came up to the Supreme  Court  byspecial leave.	It was contended on behalf of the respondentthat   the  Act	 laid  down    two   distinct	and separateprocedures,   one  for	investigation  and  the	 other	 forsettlement and it was the former alone and not the D, latterthat  was affected by the decisions of this Court. and	thatthe  appellant by voluntarily entering into  the  settlementhad  waived his fundamental right founded on Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.Held (Per Curiam), that both the contentions must fail.It  was not correct to say that the Taxation of Income	(In-vestigation  Commission) Act, 1947, laid down two  differentprocedures,  one for investigation and assessment  under  s.8(2)  of the Act and another for settlement under s.  8A  ofthe Act and assessment in terms of such settlement and	thatwhile  the decision of this Court in M. Ct.  Muthiah v.	 TheCommissioner of Incometax, Madras, declaring s. 5(1) of	 theAct  to be discriminatory and therefore void, affected	onlythe former procedure and not the latter.  The Act laid	downbut  one  procedure  and  in  entertaining  a  proposal	 forsettlement  as	in the investigation itself  the  Commissionexercised the same jurisdiction, and powers and followed theone and the same procedure as laid down by ss. 5, 6 and 7 Ofthe  Act.  Since the settlement in the instant case  was  noexception  to that rule, it was covered by the decision	 andmust be held to be violative of Art. 14 Of the Constitution.M.   Ct. Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax,  Madras,[1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247, applied.The observations made in the majority judgment of this Courtin Syed Qasim Razvi v. The State of Hyderabad, [1953] S.C.R.589, must be kept strictly confined to the special facts  ofthat case and had no application to the facts of the presentcase.Syed  Qasim Razvi v. The State of Hyderabad,  [1953]  S.C.R.589, held inapplicable.Per Das, C. J., and Kapur J.-There could be no waiver of thefundamental right founded on Art. 14 Of the Constitution andit  was	 not correct to contend that the  appellant  had  byentering into the settlement under s. 8A of the Act,  waivedhis  fundamental right under that Article.  Article  14	 wasfounded	 on a sound public policy recognised and valued	 allover  the civilised world, its language was the language  ofcommand	 and it imposed an obligation on the State of  whichno  person could, by his act or conduct, relieve it.  As  itwas  not strictly necessary for the disposal of	 this  case,the  question whether any other fundamental right  could  bewaived need not be considered in this connection.Laxamanappa  Hanumantappa jamkhandi v. The Union  of  India,[1955] 1 S.C.R. 769; Dewan-Bahadur Seth Gopal Das Moht67530v.   The  Union	 of  India,  [1955]  1	S.C.R.773;   BaburaoNarayanrao  Sanas  v. The Union Of India, [1954]  26  I.T.R.725; Subedar v. State, A.I.R. 1957 All. 396 and Pakhar Singhv. The State, A.I.R. 1958 Punj. 294, distinguished and	heldinapplicable.Per  Bhagwati  and gubba Rao, jj.-There could be  no  waiver'.,not	only of the fundamental right enshrined in  Art.  14but  also of any other fundamental right guaranteed by	PartIII   of  the  Constitution.   The  Constitution   made	  nodistinction  between  fundamental  rights  enacted  for	 thebenefit	 of the individual and those enacted in	 the  publicinterest  or on grounds of the public policy.  There  could,therefore,  be	no  justification  for	importing   Americannotions	 or authority of decided cases to whittle  down	 thetranscendental	character  of  those  rights,  conceived  inpublic interest and subject only to such limitations as	 theConstitution had itself thought fit to impose.Article	 13(2) was in terms a constitutional mandate to	 theState  in respect of all the fundamental rights	 enacted  inPart III of the Constitution and no citizen could by  waiverof  any	 one  of  them	relieve	 the  State  of	 the  solemnobligation  that lay on it.  The view expressed by  Mahajan,C.  J., in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka v. The State of  Bombay,[1955]	1  S.C.R. 613, correctly laid down the	law  on	 thepoint.	Since the arguments in the instant case had  coveredthe entire field of fundamental rights, there was no  reasonwhy the answer should be confined to Art. 14 alone.Behram	Khurshed Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay,  [1955]  1S.C.R.	613; State of Travancore-Cochin v. The	Bombay	Co.,Ltd., [1954] S.C.R. 1112 and The State of Bombay v. R. M. D.Chamarbaugwala, [1957] S.C.R. 874, referred to.Per  S.	 K. Das, J.-It seems clear that Art. 13	 itself	 re-cognises  the  distinction between  absence  of	 legislativepower  which  will  make  the law  made	 by  an	 incompetentlegislature  wholly void, and exercise of legislative  powerin  contravention of a restriction or check on	such  power,which  will  make  the	law  void  to  the  extent  of	 theinconsistency  or contravention; therefore the mere  use  ofthe  word " void " in Art. 13 does not necessarily  militateagainst the application of the doctrine of waiver in respectof the provisions contained in Part III of the Constitution.Behram	Khurshed Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay,  [1955]  1S.C.R. 613, considered.Bhikaji	 Narain	 Dhakyas  v. The State	of  Madhya  Pradesh,[1955] 2 S.C.R. 589; M. Ct.  Muthiah v. The Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,  Madras, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247 and The  State  ofBombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala, [1957] S.C.R. 874, referredto.There was nothing in the two preambles to the Indian and theAmerican  Constitutions	 that  could make  the	doctrine  ofwaiver applicable to the one and not to the other; since thedoctrine531applied	 to  the constitutional rights	under  the  AmericanConstitution, there is no reason why it should not apply  tothe fundamental rights under the Indian Constitution.Case-law considered.But it must be made clear that there is no absolute rule, orone  formulated in the abstract, as to the applicability  ofthat  doctrine to fundamental rights and such  applicabilitymust depend on (1) the nature of fundamental right to  whichit  is	sought to be applied and (2) the foundation  on	 thebasis  of which the plea is raised.  The true test  must  bewhether the fundamental right is one primarily meant for thebenefit	 of  individuals or for the benefit of	the  generalpublic.Where,	therefore, the Constitution vested the right in	 theindividual,  primarily	intending to benefit  him  and	suchright  did not impinge on the rights of others, there  couldbe  a waiver of such right provided it was not forbidden  bylaw or did not contravene public policy or public morals.As  in the instant case the respondents who had	 raised	 theplea,  had failed to prove the necessary facts on  which  itcould be sustained, the plea of waiver must fail.Per  Subba  Rao, J.-Apart from the question  as	 to  whetherthere  could be a waiver in respect of a fundamental  right,s. 5(1) of the Taxation of Income (Investigation Commission)Act, 1947, having been declared void by this Court in M. Ct.Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras, as  beingviolative of the fundamental right founded on Art' 14 Of theConstitution  and such decision being binding on all  courtsin India, the Commissioner of Income-tax had no jurisdictionto continue the proceedings against the appellant under thatAct  and  the appellant could not by a waiver of  his  rightconfer jurisdiction on him.No  distinction could be made under Art. 13(1) of  the	Con-stitution  between  the	 constitutional	 incompetency  of  alegislature  and  constitutional limitation  placed  on	 itspower of legislation, for a statute declared void on  eitherground would continue to be so, so long as the inconsistencycontinued.  As the inconsistency of S. 5(1) of the Act	withArt. 14 continued, it must continue to be void.Keshavan Madhava Menon v. The State of Bombay, [1951] S.C.R.228;  Behram Khurshed Pesihaka v. State of Bombay, [1955]  1S.C.R.	613  and Bhikaji Narain Dhakras v. State  of  MadhyaPradesh, [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589, referred to.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeal No.208 of 1958.Appeal	by  special leave from the order dated	January	 29,1958, of the Commissioner of Income-tax,Delhi & Rajasthan atNew Delhi, under s. 8A(2) of the532Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947.Harnam Singh and Sadhu Singh for the appellant.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   C.	  K.Daphtary,  Solicitor-General  of  India, B. Sen	 and  R.  H.Dhebar for the respondents.A.   C. Mitra and B. P. Maheshwari, for the interveners.1958.  November 19.  The Judgment of Das, C. J., and  Kapur,J.,,  was  delivered by Das, C. J. Bhagwati, S. K.  Das	 andSubba Rao, JJ., delivered separate judgments.DAS,  C. J.-This appeal by special leave filed by  one	ShriBesheshar  Nath hereinafter referred to as ",the assessee  "calls in question the validity of a settlement made under s.8A of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act,1947  (30  of  1947),  hereinafter  referred  to  as  "	 theInvestigation Act ". This Act, which came into force on	 May1, 1947, by a notification issued by the Central  Governmentunder s.  (1)  (3)  thereof, has had a short  but  chequeredcareer, as     will   appear  from  the	 facts	 hereinafterstated.In  order  to  appreciate the  several	questions  canvassedbefore us it is necessary to refer to the provisions of	 theimpugned  Act.	Section 3 authorised the Central  Governmentto   constitute	 an  Income  Tax  Investigation	  Commission(hereinafter  called the Commission) and imposed on  it	 thefollowing duties:-" (a) to investigate and report to the Central Government onall matters relating to taxation on income, with  particularreference  to the extent to which the existing law  relatingto, and procedure for, the assessment and collection of suchtaxation is adequate to prevent the evasion thereof;(b)  to	 investigate  in accordance with the  provisions  ofthis Act any case or points in a case -referred to it  undersection 5 and make a report thereon (including such  interimreport	' s as the Commission may think fit) to the  CentralGovernment in respect of all or any of the assessments	madein relation to the case533before the date of its report or interim report, as the casemay be."We  may skip over s. 4 which dealt with the  composition  ofthe  Commission.  Section 5, which is of importance  was  asfollows:-" 5. (1) The Central Government may at any time' before	 the30th  day  of  June,  1948,  refer  to	the  Commission	 forinvestigation  and  report any case or points in a  case  inwhich  the  Central Government has prima facie	reasons	 forbelieving  that a person has to a substantial extent  evadedpayment	 of taxation on income, together with such  materialas  may be available in support of such belief, and  may  atany  time  before the 30th day of June, 1948, apply  to	 theCommission  for	 the withdrawal of any case or points  in  acase  thus referred, and if the Commission approves  of	 thewithdrawal, no further proceedings shall thereafter be takenby or before the Commission in respect of the case or pointsso withdrawn.(2)  The  Commission  may,  after  examining  the   materialsubmitted  by the Central Government with reference  to	 anycase or points in a case and making such investigation as itconsiders  necessary, report to the Central Government	thatin its opinion further investigation is not likely to revealany  substantial evasion of taxation on income and  on	suchreport	being made the investigation shall be deemed  to  beclosed.(3)  No reference made by the Central Government under	sub-section (1), at any time before the 30th day of June,  1948,shall  be called in question, nor shall the  sufficiency  ofthe  material  on which such a reference has  been  made  beinvestigated in any manner by any Court.(4)  If	 in  the course of investigation into  any  case  orpoints	in a case referred to it under sub-section (1),	 theCommission has reason to believe-(a)that	 some  person other than the person  whose  case  isbeing investigated has evaded payment of taxation on income,or(b)  that some points other than those referred to534it  by	the Central Government in respect of any  case	alsorequire investigation,it  may make a report to the Central Government stating	 itsreasons for such belief and, on receipt of such report,	 theCentral Government shall, notwithstanding anything containedin  sub-section (1), forthwith refer to the  Commission	 forinvestigation  the  case  of  such  other  person  or	suchadditional points as may be indicated in that report."The date " 30th day of June, 1948 " appearing in sub-ss. (1)and  (3) was, by Act 49 of 1948, substituted by the words  "1st day of September, 1948 ". Section 6 set out the  variouspowers	conferred on the Commission and s. 7 prescribed	 theprocedure of the Comission.  It is not necessary to set	 outthe  various  powers  and the details of  the  procedure  inextenso	 and  it  will suffice to say that  they  have	beenconsidered  by	this Court and pronounced to  be  much	moredrastic	 and harsh than the powers to be exercised  and	 theprocedure  to  be  followed by the  income  tax	 authoritiesacting	under the provisions of the Indian Income  Tax	Act,1922.  The relevant portions of s. 8 ran as follows:-"  8.  (1)  Save  as otherwise provided	 in  this  Act,	 thematerials  brought on record shall be considered by all	 thethree  members	of the Commission sitting together  and	 thereport	of  the Commission shall be in accordance  with	 theopinion of the majority.(2)  After  considering the report, tile Central  Governmentshall by order in writing direct that such proceedings as itthinks fit under the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, the ExcessProfits	 Tax  Act, 1940, or any other law,  shall  be  takenagainst	 the  person  to whose case the	 report	 relates  inrespect	 of  the income of any period commencing  after	 the31st day of December, 1938; and, upon such a direction beinggiven,	such proceedings may be taken 'and  completed  underthe   appropriate  law	notwithstanding	  the	restrictionscontained in   section	34  of the Indian  Income  Tax	Act,1922, or section 15 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940,  orany  other law and notwithstanding any lapse of time or	 anydecision to a different effect given535in  the	 case  by any Income tax  authority  or	 Income	 TaxAppellate Tribunal.(3).........................................................(4)  In all assessment or re-assessment proceedings taken inpursuance  of  a  direction  under  sub-section'  (2),	 thefindings  recorded by the Commission on the case or  on	 thepoints	referred to it shall, subject to the  provisions  ofsub-sections (5) and (6), be final; but no proceedings takenin  pursuance  of  such	 direction shall be  a	bar  to	 theinitiation  of	proceedings under section 34 of	 the  IndianIncome Tax Act, 1922.(5).........................................................(6).........................................................(7)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary  contained  inthis  Act or in any other law, for the time being in  force,any  evidence in the case admitted before the Commission  oran  authorised official shall be admissible in	evidence  inany proceedings directed to be taken under sub-section (2).(8).........................................................Section	 9  barred  the jurisdiction of Courts	to  call  inquestion  any  act or proceeding of the	 Commission  or	 anyauthorised  official appointed under s. 6. Section  10	gavepower	to   the  Central  Government  to  make	  rules	  bynotification in the official gazette.On  July 22, 1948, the case of the assessee was referred  tothe  Commission in the following terms:" Ministry of Finance (Revenue Division)   New Delhi, the 22nd July, 1948.Under section 5 (1) of the Taxation on Income (InvestigationCommission)  Act, 1947, the cases of the  following  personsare  hereby  referred to the  Investigation  Commission	 forinvestigation  and  report, as the  Central  Government	 hasprima facie reasons for believing that each such person	 haseither	alone  or  in combination  with	 the  other  personsmentioned  below, evaded payment of taxation on income to  asubstantial536extent.	  The material available in support of 'such  beliefaccompanies.------------------------------------------------------------      No.				    Name------------------------------------------------------------   EP. 829/1			Beshashar Nath and Co.829/2			 Lala Beshashar Nath.			 Sd./-Pyare Lal,			 Deputy Secretary,			 Ministry of Finance			 (Revenue Division).    The Secretary,Income-tax,Investigation Commission, New Delhi."It   is	 not  necessary	 to  set  out  the  annexures	thataccompanied  this  Orders It appears that the  total  wealthstatement  of the assessee was filed on November  10,  1948,and  was  forwarded  to the authorised	official.   It	alsoappears that from January 8, 1949, to October 14, 1949,	 theauthorised  official  was  engaged  in	the  collection	  ofassessment  records  of the assessee  from  the	 territorialincome tax offices and of materials from the Civil  SuppliesDirectorate  regarding the assessee.  In the meantime by  a.33  of Act 67 of 1949 the following section was inserted  inthe Act as s. 8A:-" 8A.  Settlement of cases under investigation:(1) Where anyPerson	concerned in any case referred to or pending  beforethe  Commission for investigation applies to the  Commissionat  any time during such investigation to have the  case  orany part thereof settled in so far as it relates to him, theCommission shall, if it is of opinion that the terms of	 thesettlement  contained  in the application may  be  approved,refer  the  matter  to the Central Government,	and  if	 theCentral Government accepts the terms of such settlement, theCommission  shall  have	 the  terms  thereof  recorded	 andthereupon  the	investigation, in so far as  it	 relates  tomatters	 covered by such settlement, shall be deemed  to  beclosed.(2)  For  the  purpose	of  enforcing  the  terms  of	any,settlement arrived at in pursuance of sub-section (1),		    537the  Central Government may direct that such proceedings  asmay be appropriate under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XIof 1922), the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940),  orany  other law may be taken against the person to  whom	 thesettlement relates, and in particular the provisions of	 thesecond	proviso to clause (a) of-sub-section (5) of  section23,  section  24B, the proviso to sub-section 2	 of  section25A, the proviso to subjection 2 of section 26 and  sections44  and	 46  of the Indian Income-tax Act,  1922,  shall  beapplicable  to	the recovery of any sum	 specified  in	suchsettlement by the, Income Tax Officer having jurisdiction toassess the person by whom such sum is payable as if it	wereincome-tax or an arrear of income-tax within the meaning  ofthose provisions.(3)  Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6) of section8,  any	 settlement arrived at under this section  shall  beconclusive  as to the matters stated therein, and no  personwhose case has been so settled be entitled to re-open in anyproceeding for the recovery of any sum under this section orin  any	 subsequent assessment	or  reassessment  proceedingrelating  to taxation on income or in any  other  proceedingbefore	any Court or other authority any matter which  formspart of such settlement.(4)  Where  a  settlement has been  accepted  by  Governmentunder  sub-section (1), no proceedings under section  34  ofthe  Indian  Income  Tax Act, 1922 (XI of  1922),  or  undersection 15 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940),shall be initiated in respect of the items of income coveredby the settlement, unless the initiation of such proceedingsis expressly allowed by the terms of the settlement."On  July  5, 1949, the total wealth statement  was  receivedback  from the authorised official.  Our  Constitution	cameinto force on January 26, 1950.	 The order-sheet shows	thatthe authorised official on May 26, 1950, issued a notice  tothe  assessee  fixing the hearing for June 10,	1950,  whichindicates  that the authorised official was proceeding	withthe  investigation  set in motion by the  reference  of	 theassessee's68538case  to  the  Commission.  The	 assessee  appears  to	haveattended on June 6, 1950, with an application for  extensionof time which apparently was given.  On September 30,  1950,the  assessee supplied certain statements of his firm.	 Theentry  in  the order-sheet ,,,against the date	October	 31,1950, shows that the assessee asked for further extension oftime.	There  appears to be a hiatus of about 3  years	 andevidently  nothing  was done until June 9,  1953,  when	 theauthorised  official fixed the hearing of the case  on	June15,  1953.   The authorised official submitted	his  interimreport to the Commission on June 9. 1953.  The assessee	 wasexamined  on October 9, 10 and 13, 1953, and the  authorisedofficial submitted his final report on October 19, 1953.  OnJanuary	 30,  1954,  notice was issued to  the	assessee  toappear	 before	 the  Commission  on  February	 15,   1954.Presumably  to	get ready for the hearing the  assessee,  onFebruary 5, 1954, asked for inspection of certain assessmentorders	concerning  his case-, for the return of  his  leasedeed  filed  by him and a copy of the statement	 of  one  L.Kalidas	 and for production of certain documents before	 theCommission.  The hearing, which had been fixed for  February15, 1954, was adjourned till March 4, 1954.  Witness Kalidaswas  examined  on March 4,. 1954.  On March  29,  1954,	 theassessee  asked for a, copy of the deposition given  by	 thewitness Durgadas before the Commission.	 After the  evidencewas closed notice was issued to the assessee on May 1, 1954,asking him to appear before the Commission on May 19,  1954.On that date the assessee attended, arguments were heard andorders	were  reserved.	 Learned counsel  for  the  assesseestates	that at the close of the arguments on May 19,  1954,the  Commission announced its view that the income,  profitsand  gains that had escaped assessment in the hands  of	 theassessee  for the period beginning with April 1,  1939,	 andending	March 31, 1947, were the sum of Rs.  4,47,915,	thatthe  Commission also threw a hint that should  the  assesseeaccept the said finding he would be granted the benefit of asettlement  on the lower concessional basis of.	 payment  of75% and a small penalty of Rs. 14,064539other  alternative than to make the best of the bad  job  byproposing  a  settlement  under s. 8A offering	to  pay	 Rs.3,50,000 by way of tax and penalty.  This sequence of eventsis  amply borne out by paragraphs 3 and 4 of the  settlementapplication filed by the assessee on May 20, 1954, a copy ofwhich  has been produced before us by the respondents.	 TheCommission on May 24, 1954, made a report under s. 8A (1) tothe Central Government that it was of opinion that the termsof   settlement	 contained  in	the  application  might	  beapproved.   The	 Central  Government  having  accepted	 theproposed  settlement, the Commission had the  terms  thereofrecorded.  The Central Government by its Order C No. 74	 (9-IT)  54	 made  on  July 5, 1954, under	s.  8A	(2)  of	 theInvestigation Act directed that demand notice in  accordancewith the said terms be served immediately by the Income	 TaxOfficer and that all such other proceedings under the IndianIncome	Tax  Act or other law as may be necessary  be  takenwith  a view to enforce the payment of the demand  and	thatthe  entire sum of Rs. 3,50,000 be demanded in one sum.	  Itappears,  however,  that the assessee was  allowed  to	makepayments by instalments of Rs. 5,000, per month.In  the	 meantime  on May 28,  1954,  this  Court  deliveredjudgment  in  Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. A.  V.  VisvanathaSastri (1).  In that case in the course of investigation  ofthe  case of Messrs.  Jute and Gunny Brokers Ltd. which	 hadbeen  referred	to  the Commission under s.  5	(1)  of	 theInvestigation Act, it was alleged to have been discovered bythe Commission that Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. had made  largeprofits	 which	they had not disclosed and had	thus  evadedtaxation.   A  report  to that effect having  been  made  onAugust 28, 1953, by the Commission to the Central Governmentunder  s.  5  (4)  of  the  Investigation  Act	the  CentralGovernment  on September 9, 1953, referred the case  againstSuraj  Mall  Mohta  and	 Co. to	 the  Commission  under	 theprovisions  of	s.  5  (4).   On  September  15,  1953,	 theCommission notified Suraj Mall[1955]	1 S.C.R.448540Mohta  and  Co.	 that  their cases  had	 been  referred	 forinvestigation  and  called  upon  them	to  furnish  certainmaterials, details of which were set out in annexure to	 thepetition.  On April 12, 1954, Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. fileda  petition under Art. 32 of the Constitution asking for  anappropriate writ restraining the, Commission from taking anyaction	 on   the  ground  that	 the   provisions   of	 theInvestigation  Act had become void being  discriminatory  incharacter.  By that judgment this Court held that both s. 34of  the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, as it then	 stood,	 andsub-s.	(4)  of	 s. 5 of the Investigation  Act	 dealt	withpersons who had similar characteristics of being persons whohad not truly disclosed their income and had evaded  paymentof tax on their income but that as the procedure  prescribedby the Investigation Act was substantially more	 prejudicialthan  the procedure under the Indian Income Tax	 Act,  1922,sub-s.	(4)  of	 s. 5 and the procedure	 prescribed  by	 theInvestigation	Act,-in	 so  far  as  it  affected   personsproceeded  against  under that sub-section was	a  piece  ofdiscriminatory legislation which offended the provisions  ofArt.  14  of the Constitution and was, therefore,  void	 andunenforceable.Sub-section (4) of s. 5 of the Investigation Act having beendeclared  void,	 Parliament  passed the	 Indian	 Income	 TaxAmendment  Act	(33 of 1954) amending s. 34  of	 the  IndianIncome	Tax  Act,  1922.  Paradoxical as it  may  seem,	 theresult	of this amendment was that persons  who	 originally,fell only within the ambit of s. 5 (1) of the  InvestigationAct  and formed a distinct class of substantial tax  evadersalso came within the amended s. 34 of the Indian Income	 TaxAct, 1922.  The position after the amendment, therefore, wasthat  the Income Tax Officers could pick out some  of  thesepersons and refer their cases under s. 5 (1) of the Investi-gation Act and thereby subject them to the drastic and harshprocedure  of  that Act, while they could  deal	 with  otherpersons	 similarly situate under s. 34 as amended and  applyto  them  the comparatively more beneficial  procedure	laiddown  in the Indian Income Tax Act, 1922.  Promptly  severalapplications were541made  under  Art. 32 of the  Constitution  complaining	thatafter  the amendment of s. 34 of the Indian Income Tax	Act,s.  5 (1) of the Investigation Act became discriminatory  inthat the persons falling within it could be dealt with underthe  drastic, prejudicial and harsh procedure prescribed  bythe  Investigation  Act,  while	   other   persons similarlysituate and belonging to the same category could at the whimor  pleasure  of  the Income Tax  authorities  be  proceededagainst under the more beneficial procedure prescribed underthe  Indian  Income Tax Act.  All  those  applications	weredisposed of by a common judgment reported as Shree MeenakshiMills  Ltd.  v. Sri A. V. Visvanatha Sastri (1)	 This  Courtheld  that  s. 34 of the Income Tax Act, as amended  by	 theIndian Income Tax Amendment Act, 1954 (33 of 1954), operatedon the same field as s. 5 (1) of the Investigation Act, and,therefore, s. 5 (1) had become void and unenforceable as theprocedure  applied to persons dealt with  thereunder  becamediscriminatory	in  character.	It should be noted  that  innone of those petitions disposed of by that judgment had anyassessment  been made under the Investigation Act  and	thisCourt	only  prohibited  further  proceedings	before	 theCommission  under  the	Investigation  Act.   The   assesseeappellant  now before us who had entered into  a  settlementunder s. 8 of the Investigation Act and had been assessed inaccordance with the terms of the settlement continued to paythe tax by monthly instalments of Rs. 5,000 as before.Finally	 on  December 20, 1955, came the  decision  of	thisCourt in M. CT.	 Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income	Tax,Madras (2). In that case the Central Government had under s.5  (1)	of the Investigation Act referred the  case  to	 theCommission.    The  Commission	after  holding	an   enquiryrecorded its findings and held that an aggregate sum of	 Rs.10,07,322-4-3 represented the undisclosed income during	 theperiod under investigation.  The Commission having submittedits  report  to the Central Government,	 the  latter  actingunder  s.  8  (2) of the  Investigation	 Act  directed	thatappropriate action under the(1) [1955] 1 S. C. R. 787.(2) [1955] 2 S. C. R. 1247.542Indian Income Tax Act, 1922, be taken against that  assesseewith  a	 view to assess or re-assess the  income  which	 hadescaped	 assessment for the period 1940-41 to 1948-49.	 TheIncome	Tax Officer accordingly issued notices and made	 there-assessment for the years 1940-41, 1941-42 and 1943-44  to1948-49 based upon the finding of the Commission, which	 wastreated	 as final and conclusive.  These  assessment  orderswere  served on that assessee.	There was, however,  no	 re.assessment  order  for the year 1942-43.  In regard  to	 theassessment  orders  which  had	been  served  the   assesseeconcerned applied to the Commissioner of Income Tax under S.8  (5)	of the Investigation Act for reference to  the	HighCourt on questions of law arising out of those re-assessmentorders.	  During  the  pendency	 of  those  proceedings	 theassessee, in that case on December 6, 1954, filed a petitioncontending that the provisions of the Investigation Act wereillegal, ultra vires and unconstitutional.  The majority  ofthis Court held that different persons, though falling underthe same class or category of substantial evaders of income.tax,  were  being subjected to different procedures,  one  asummary	 and  drastic  procedure and the  other	 the  normalprocedure  which gave to the assessees various rights  whichwere  denied to those who were specially treated  under	 the-procedure   prescribed	 by  the  Investigation	  Act	and,therefore, the assessments made under s. 8 (2) were void andunenforceable.	That was a case of assessment under s. 8 (2)in  invitum after an investigation under  the  InvestigationAct.   The assessee appellant before us, who had at the	 endof  the	 investigation entered into a  settlement  and	beenassessed  in accordance with the terms of  such	 settlement,however, went on making payments in discharge of the balancedue  under the terms of settlement right up to September  8,1957,  when he made the last payment of Us.  8,000  bringingthe aggregate payment up to Rs. 1,28,000.In   the  meantime  the	 Income	 Tax  Officer  had  sent   acertificate  requesting	 the  Collector	 of  Delhi  for	 therecovery  of  the  balance due by  the	assessee  under	 thesettlement.  In execution of that certificate some of		    543the   properties  belonging  to	 the  assessee	situate	  inDharamsalla and Hissar were attached.  On December 27, 1957,the   assessee	made  an  application  to  the	Income	 TaxCommissioner.  After pointing out that between July 5, 1954,and  December 27, 1957, the petitioner had paid in  all	 Rs.1,28,000 towards the-' discharge of his liability under	 thesettlement  and referring to the decisions of this Court  insuraj  Mall  Mohta's  case (1) and Muthiah's  case  (2)	 theassessee  submitted that the settlement under a. 8A  of	 theInvestigation Act had no force and did not bind the petitio-ner and that the settlement had been made under the pressureof  the situation and in view of the coercive  machinery  ofthe Investigation Act and that from either point of view thesettlement was not binding.  His contention was that when s.5(1) of the Investigation Act had been held unconstitutionalthe  settlement under s. 8A could not be enforced,  for	 thefoundation of the proceedings under s. 8A was the  referenceunder  s. 5(1) and the foundation having crumbled  down	 thesuperstructure	must fall with it.  Under the  circumstancesthe  assessee  submitted  that the  attached  properties  bereleased   and	the  amount  already  recovered	 under	 thesettlement be refunded.	 On January 29, 1958, the Income TaxCommissioner   sent  the  following  communication  to	 theassessee:-No. L-228(1)/54-55/17590 Office	 of  the Commissioner Income Tax  Delhi	 andRajasthan, New Delhi. Dated,	 New  Delhi the 29th  January,	1958.	ShriBesheshar Nath,9, Barakhamba Road,New Delhi.Dear Sir,Sub:-Taxation  on  Income  (Investigation  Commission)	Act,1947-Order  u/s	 8A(2)-Your petition  dated  27th  December,1957.With  reference to your petition dated 27th December,  1957,regarding the settlement arrived at(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.544under section 8A(2) of the Taxation on Income (InvestigationCommission)  Act,  1947,  I  am	 to  inform  you  that	 thesettlement is valid and binding on you.2.   You  are, therefore, requested to make good arrears  ofinstalments  which  you	 have  not  paid  recently  by	 5thFebruary, 1958, and also to continue making the payments  inaccordance  with the instalments scheme agreed	to,  failingwhich  the recovery proceedings will be	 vigorously  pursuedthrough the usual recovery channels.	     Your's faithfully,	     Sd./- S. K. Gupta,	 Commissioner of Income-tax,	Delhi & Rajasthan, New Delhi.Being aggrieved by the above decision the assessee thereuponmoved  this  Court  and obtained  special  leave  to  appealagainst	 that order.  The appeal has now come up  for  finaldisposal before us.It may be mentioned here that as the respondents are anxiousto  have  the matters of controversy raised in	this  appealdecided	 and  set at rest by a decision of this	 Court,	 therespondents,  for  the	purposes of this  appeal,  have	 notinsisted  on  their objection that an appeal  does  not	 lieunder  Art. 136 of the Constitution against an order of	 theCommissioner  of  Income  Tax.	 Learned  counsel  for	 theassessee  also has not pressed his claim for refund  of	 theamounts	 already paid and has pressed the  appeal  regardingthe  balance  that remains to be paid under  the  settlementwhich	is   characterised  as	invalid.    Model   KnittingIndustries  Ltd. which has a case pending in the High  Courtof Calcutta where the same questions as are in issue in	 theappeal	before us, are also in issue has been. permitted  tointervene  and	we  have heard counsel	appearing  for	thatintervener.In  view  of the three decisions referred to  above  learnedAttorney General does not seriously contend that the  powersconferred  on the Commission by s. 6 and the procedure	laiddown   by   s.	 7  of	the  Investigation   Act   are	 notdiscriminatory,	 but what he urges is that none of the	saiddecisions has held that s. 5(1) is		    545wholly	void  and inoperative.	He says that  s.  5(1)	onlyauthorises the Central Government to refer certain cases  tothe  Commission.   Upon	 such  a  reference  two  lines	  ofprocedure  are clearly indicated by the	 Investigation	Act,namely,	 (1)  that an investigation may be held	 in  invitumfollowing the procedure prescribed and exercising the powersconferred by the lnvestigation Act and (2) that a settlementmay be made under s. 8A.  If the first procedure is followedand an assessment is made under s. 8(2) such assessment willundoubtedly  be invalid as has been held in  Muthiah's	case(1),  but  if  on  a  case  being  referred  the  settlementprocedure  is  followed	 then  the  consequential  order  ofassessment under s. 8A cannot be questioned.  We are  unableto  accept this line of argument as permissible in  view  ofthe  provisions	 of  the  Investigation	 Act.	It  will  berecalled that when the case of the assessee was referred  tothe Commission under s. 5(1) on July 22, 1948, there was  noprovision for settlement in the Act at all.  Therefore, thatreference,  when it was made, consigned the assessee to	 theonly procedure of investigation that was then prescribed  bythe  Act.   In the next place it should be  remembered	thatafter  s. 8A was added in the Investigation Act by s. 33  ofAct 67 of 1949 an authorised official was appointed under s.6(3)  to  investigate  the affairs of the  assessee  and  toexamine	 the books and to interrogate any person  or  obtainany  statement	from  any person and under  sub-s.  (4)	 theauthorised  official  was  empowered to	 exercise  the	samepowers	as had been vested in the Commission  under  sub-ss.(1) and (2) of s. 6. Further, by its own terms s. 8A made itclear that the person concerned in any case referred to	 theCommission  for investigation might apply to the  Commissionat  any	 time  during such investigation to  have  the	casesettled.   Therefore  this provision for settlement  was  anintegral part of the entire investigation procedure.  It wasnot  a	separate  or independent procedure  apart  from	 theinvestigation procedure.  It is true that there was  nothingto prevent the assessee from straightaway(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.69546making	a  proposal for settlement before  any	actual	steptowards	  investigation	 -was  taken  by  the	Income	 Taxauthorities,  but  before  the Commission  could  refer	 theproposal for settlement to the Central Government it had  tobe  satisfied that the terms of settlement contained in	 theapplication were such as might be approved.  For the purposeof satisfying itself the Commission had obviously to go intothe facts either by itself or through an authorised officialand  to consider the materials collected by  the  authorisedofficial  and  in  the process of doing so had	to  hold  aninvestigation of some sort and that investigation had neces-sarily	 to  be	 made  in  accordance  with  the   procedureprescribed   by	 the  Investigation  Act  itself.   It	 is,therefore,  not	 correct to say that there could be  a	pro-ceeding for settlement without any investigation at all.  Inour  opinion s. 8A did not provide for a separate  procedureat  all.   When	 a case was referred under s.  5(1)  it	 wasreally	for  investigation and a  settlement  was  somethingwhich  could  crop up in the process of	 that  investigationjust  as in the course of a suit parties may arrive at	somecompromise.   In  recording  the compromise  and  passing  ajudgment  in  accordance with the  compromise  thereof,	 thecourt  exercises  the same jurisdiction as it  exercises  inentertaining and disposing of the suit itself.	Likewise  inentertaining  a	 proposal  for	settlement  the	  Commissionexercised  its	jurisdiction of investigation  under  s.  5,followed the procedure prescribed by s. 7 and exercised	 allits  powers  under s. 6. As already stated the	language  ofs.8A  itself  shows that a settlement can be  proposed	onlyduring such investigation.  In our judgment, therefore,	 thecontention   of	 the  learned  Attorney	 General  that	 theInvestigation  Act  prescribed two procedures is  not  well-founded.Learned	  Attorney   General  then  points  out	  that	 theInvestigation Act was a pre-Constitution Act and that beforethe commencement of the Constitution when there was no	suchthing  as a fundamental right, its provisions could  not  bequestioned  however  discriminatory the procedure  may	havebeen.	 He  urges  that  after	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution the547assessee  has not been subjected to the	 coercive  procedurelaid   down  by	 the  Investigation  Act,  but	 voluntarily-proposed  a  settlement which was accepted by	the  CentralGovernment on the recommendation of the Commission.  In thatsituation  he  was in the same position as Qasim  Razvi	 hadbeen in and the observations to be found in the judgment  ofMukherjea,  J., who delivered the majority judgment in	SyedQasim  Razvi  v. The State of Hyderabad (1) applied  to	 thepresent	 appeal.  We do not think it is necessary,  for	 thepurpose	 of  this appeal, to go minutely into the  facts  ofQasim	Razvi's	 case  (1)  with  reference  to	 which	 theobservations  relied  on had been made, or  to	analyse	 thecorrectness of the reasoning adopted in that case, for	thatcan  only be done by a larger Bench.  We are  definitely  ofopinion, however, that the observations made in the majorityjudgement  should not be extended but must be kept  strictlyconfined to the special facts of that case. In our judgementthose observations have no ~application to the facts of	 thepresent	  appeal  before  us,  for  here  even	 after	 thecommencement   of   the	  Constitution,	  the	process	  ofinvestigation continued in that the authorised official wenton   collecting	  materials  by	 following   the   procedureprescribed  by s. 7 and exercising the powers  conferred  onhim by s. 6 of the Investigation Act.The  last argument advanced by the learned Attorney  Generalis  that  if  there  had been a	 breach	 of  the  assessee'sfundamental  right  by subjecting him  to  a  discriminatory-procedure laid down in the Investigation Act, the  asessee,by voluntarily entering into a settlement, must be taken  tohave  waived such breach and cannot now be permitted to	 setup  his fundamental right.  Immediately two questions  arisefor  consideration, namely, (1) whether the  assessee  couldwaive  the breach of the fundamental right in  question	 and(2)  whether in the facts and circumstances of this case  hehad actually done so.Re. (1): In Behram Khurshed Pesikaka v. State ofBombay (2) there was a general discussion whether a(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 589.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.548fundamental right could be waived.  At page 638	 VenkataramaAiyar, J., observed:-"  The	question is, what is the legal effect of  a  statutebeing  declared unconstitutional.  The answer to it  dependson  two	 considerations	 firstly  does	the   constitutionalprohibition  which has been infringed affect the  competenceof  the	 Legislature  to enact the law	or  does  it  merelyoperate	 as  a check on the exercise of a  power  which	 is-within	its  competence;  and secondly, if it  is  merely  acheck, whether it is enacted for the benefit of	 individualsor  whether  it is imposed for the benefit  of	the  generalpublic	on  grounds  of public policy.	If  the	 statute  isbeyond	the competence of the Legislature, as  for  example,when  a	 State enacts a law which is  within  the  exclusivecompetence of the Union, it would be a nullity.	 That  wouldalso  be  the position when a limitation is imposed  on	 thelegislative  power in the interests of the public,  as,	 forinstance, the provisions in Chapter XIII of the Constitutionrelating  to inter-State trade and commerce.  But  when	 thelaw  is	 within the competence of the  Legislature  and	 theunconstitutionality  arises by reason of its  repugnancy  toprovisions enacted for the benefit of individuals, it is nota   nullity   but   is	merely	 unenforceable.	   Such	  anunconstitutionality  can be waived and in that case the	 lawbecomes	 enforceable.	In America this	 principle  is	wellsettled. (Vide Cooley on Constitutional Limitations,  Volume1, pages 368 to 371 ; Willis on Constitutional Law at  pages524,  531, 542 and 558 ; Rottschaefer on Constitutional	 Lawat pages 28 and 29-30)."After  referring to three decisions of the American  SupremeCourt  which are also now relied on by the learned  AttorneyGeneral, the learned Judge concluded as follows:-" The position must be the same under our Constitution	whena law contravenes a prescription intended for the benefit ofindividuals.   The rights guaranteed under Art. 19  (1)	 (f)are enacted for the benefit of owners of properties and whena law is found to infringe that provision, it is open to anyperson whose rights have been infringed to waive it and whenthere		    549is waiver there is no legal impediment to the enforcement ofthe  law.   It	would  be otherwise if	the  statute  was  anullity;  in  which  case  it  can  neither  be	 waived	 norenforced.   If then the law is merely unenforceable and	 cantake  effect when waived it cannot be treated as non and  aseffaced	 out of the statute book.  It is scarcely  necessaryto  add	 that  the question of waiver  is  relevant  to	 thepresent	 controversy  not as bearing on any  issue  of	factarising	 for determination in this case but as	showing	 thenature	of the right declared under Art. 19 (1) (f) and	 theeffect in law of a statute contravening it."When the case came up before the court on review Mahajan, C.J.,  with  the concurrence of Mukherjea,  Vivian  Bose,	 andGhulam Hassan, JJ., said at page 653:-" In our opinion, the doctrine of waiver enunciated by	someAmerican  Judges  in construing	 the  American	Constitutioncannot	be introduced in our Constitution without  a  fullerdiscussion of the matter.  No inference in deciding the caseshould have been raised on the basis of such a theory.	 Thelearned Attorney General when questioned about the  doctrinedid  not  seem to be very enthusiastic	about  it.   Withoutfinally	 expressing an opinion on this question we  are	 notfor the moment convinced that this theory has any  relevancyin  construing the fundamental rights conferred by Part	 IIIof our Constitution.  We think that the rights described  asfundamental  rights  are  a  necessary	consequence  of	 thedeclaration  in the preamble that the people of	 India	havesolemnly  resolved  to	constitute India  into	a  sovereigndemocratic  republic  and  to secure  to  all  its  citizensjustice, social, economic and political; liberty of thought,expression belief, faith and worship; equality of status andof opportunity.	 These fundamental rights have not been	 putin  the Constitution merely for individual  benefit,  thoughultimately   they   come  into	operation   in	 consideringindividual rights.  They have been put there as a matter  ofpublic	policy	and  the  doctrine of  waiver  can  have  noapplication to provisions of law which have been enacted  asa matter of constitutional policy.550Reference to some of the Articles, inter alia, Arts. 15 (1),20, 21, makes the proposition quite plain.  A citizen cannotget   discrimination  by  telling  the	State  "   You	 candiscriminate  ", or get convicted by waiving the  protectiongiven under Arts. 20 and 21."On  that  occasion one of us preferred not  to	express	 anyopinion on this subject and said at page 670:-" In coming to the conclusion that I have, I have in a largemeasure	 found	myself	in  agreement  with  the  views	  ofVenkatarama Aiyar, J., on that part of the case. 1, however,desire	to  guard myself against being understood  to  agreewith  the  rest	 of  the observations to  be  found  in	 hisjudgment,   particularly   those  relating  to	 waiver	  ofunconstitutionality,  the  fundamental rights being  a	merecheck on legislative power or the effect of the	 declarationunder Art. 13(1) being " relatively void ". On those  topicsI prefer to express no opinion on this occasion."It  will, however, be noticed that the observations  of	 thelearned	 judges	 made  in that case did not  relate  to	 thewaiver of a breach of the fundamental right under Art. 14.The  fundamental right, the breach whereof is complained  ofby the assessee, is founded on Art. 14 of the  Constitution.The problem, therefore, before us is whether a breach of thefundamental  right flowing from Art. 14 can be waived.	 Fordisposing  Of  this  appeal it is not necessary	 for  us  toconsider  whether  any	of  the	 other	fundamental   rightsenshrined  in Part III of our Constitution can or cannot  bewaived.	  We take the view that this court should  not	makeany  pronouncement  on any question which  is  not  strictlynecessary for the disposal of the particular case before it.We, therefore, confine our attention to Art. 14 and  proceedto discuss the question on that footing.   Article 14 runs as follows:-"   The State shall not deny to any person  equality  beforethe  law  or  the equal protection of the  laws	 within	 theterritory of India."It is the first of the five Articles grouped together  underthe heading " Right to Equality". - The underlying object ofthis Article is undoubtedly to secure to		    551all persons, citizen or non-citizens, the equality of statusand  of oppotunity referred to in the glorious	preamble  ofour  Constitution.  It combines the English doctrine of	 therule  of law and the equal protection T. clause of the	14thAmendment to the American Federal Constitution which enjoinsthat   no  State  shall	 deny  to  any	person	within	 itsjurisdiction the equal protection of the laws ". There	can,therefore,  be	no  doubt or dispute that  this	 Article  isfounded	 on a sound public policy recognised and  valued  inall  civilised States.	Coming then to the language  of	 theArticle it must be noted, first and foremost that this Arti-cle  is, in form, an admonition addressed to the  State	 anddoes not directly purport to confer any right on any  personas  some  of  the other Articles, e.g.,	 Art.  19,  do.	 Theobligation  thus imposed on the State, no doubt, enures	 forthe  benefit of all persons, for, as a necessary  result  ofthe  operation	of  this Article, they	all  enjoy  equalitybefore	the  law.  That is, however,  the  indirect,  thoughnecessary  and	inevitable,  result  of	 the  mandate.	 Thecommand	 of  the Article is directed to the  State  and	 thereality	 of the obligation thus imposed on the State is	 themeasure	 of the fundamental right which every person  withinthe  territory	of  India is to enjoy.	The  next  thing  tonotice is that the benefit of this Article is not limited tocitizens,  but	is  available  to  any	person	within	 theterritory of India.  In the third place it is to be observedthat, by virtue of Art. 12, " the State " which is, by	Art.14,  forbidden to discriminate between persons includes	 theGovernment  and Parliament of India and the  Government	 andthe legislature of each of the States and all local or otherauthorities  within  the  territory of India  or  under	 thecontrol of the Government of India.  Article 14,  therefore,is  an	injunction to both the legislative as  well  as	 theexecutive  organs  of the State and  the  other	 subordinateauthorities.  As regards the legislative organ of the State,the fundamental right is further consolidated and  protectedby  the provisions of Art. 13.	Clause (1) of  that  Articleprovides that all laws in force in the territories of  Indiaimmediately before the commencement of the Constitution,  inso552far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of Part IIIshall, to the extent of the inconsistency be void.  Likewiseel. (2) of this Article prohibits the State from making	 anylaw which takes away or abridges the rights conferred by thesame  Part and follows it up by saying that any law made  incontravention  of  this clause Shall, to the extent  of	 thecontravention, be void.	 It will be observed that- so far asthis  Article  is concerned, there is no relaxation  of	 therestriction  imposed by it such as there are in some of	 theother  Articles, e.g., Art. 19, cls. (2) to (6).  Our  rightto  equality before the law is thus completely	and  withoutany  exception secured from all legislative  discrimination.It  is	not  necessary, for the purpose of  this  appeal  toconsider  whether an executive order is a " law" within	 themeaning of Art. 13, for even without the aid of Art. 13	 ourright  to  the	equal protection of  the  law  is  protectedagainst	 the vagaries, if any, of the  executive  Governmentalso.  In this connection the observations of Lord Atkin  inEshugbayi  Eleko v. Officer Administering the Government  ofNigeria	 (1)  are apposite.  Said his Lordship at  page	 670that  in accordance with British jurisprudence no member  ofthe executive can interfere with the liberty or property  ofa British subject except when be can support the legality ofhis  act  before  a court of justice That  apart,  the	verylanguage  of Art. 14 of the Constitution  expressly  directsthat " the State ", which by Art. 12 includes the  executiveorgan, shall not deny to any person equality before the	 lawor  the equal protection of the law.  Thus Art. 14  protectsus  from  both legislative and executive tyranny by  way  ofdiscrimination.Such  being  the  true	intent and effect  of  Art.  14	 thequestion  arises, can a breach of the obligation imposed  onthe  State be waived by any person ? In the face of such  anunequivocal  admonition	 administered by  the  Constitution,which  is  the supreme law of the land, is it  open  to	 theState  to disobey the constitutional mandate merely  because'a  person  tells  the	State that it may do  so  ?  If	 theConstitution asks the State as(1)  L.R. [1931] A,.C. 662.553to  why the State did not carry out its behest, will  it  beany  answer for the State to make that " true, you  directedme not to deny any person equality before the law, but	thisperson	said that I could do so, for he had no objection  tomy doing it." I do not think the State will be in any betterposition than the positions in which Adam found himself whenGod asked him as to why he had eaten the forbidden fruit andthe  State's above answer will be as futile as was  that  ofAdam  who pleaded that the woman had tempted him and  so  heate  the forbidden fruit.  It seems to us absolutely  clear,on  the language of Art. 14 that it is a command  issued  bythe  Constitution to the State as a matter of public  policywith a view to implement its object of ensuring the equalityof status and opportunity which every welfare State, such asIndia,	is by her Constitution expected to do and no  personcan, by any act or conduct, relieve the State of the  solemnobligation  imposed on it by the Constitution.	 What.	everbreach of other fundamental right a person or a citizen	 mayor  may	 not waive, he cannot certainly give up or  waive  abreach of the fundamental right that is indirectly conferredon him by this constitutional mandate directed to the State.The learned Attorney General has relied on various  passagesin  text-books	written by well-known and  eminent  writers,e.g.,  Cooley,	Willoughby, Willis and Rottschaefer  and  oneight American decisions.  In considering the statements  oflaw  made  by  American writers	 and  judges  the  followingobservations  of  Patanjali Sastri, C. J., in The  State  ofTravancore-Cocochin  and others v. The Bombay Co.  Ltd.	 (1)should conatantly be borne in mind:-scope and purpose, and a varying body of doctrines and testshave   grown   around  them   interpreting,   extending	  orrestricting,   from  time  to  time,  their  operation	 andapplication  in	 the  context  of  the	expanding   Americancommerce  and industry, and we are of opinion that not	muchhelp can be derived from them(1)  [1952] S.C.R. 1112,112O, 1121.70554in  the solution of the problems arising under Art.  286  ofthe Indian Constitution."(See also The State of Bombay v. R.M.D.	 Chamarbaugwala(1)).The  American  authorities  cited by  the  Attorney  Generalrelate	to  waiver of obligations under a contract,  of	 thedeprivation of right to property without due process of	 lawor  of	the constitutional right to trial by  jury  and	 thelike.  They have no bearing on the question of the waiver ofthe  equal  protection clause of the 14th  Amendment  which,like our Art. 14, is a mandate to the State.  It is signifi-cant that no American decision is forthcoming which  upholdsthe  waiver  of the breach of that clause.  When a  case  ofbreach	of  any of the fundamental rights akin to  what	 aredealt  with in the American authorities will come before  usit  will,  then,  be  the  time	 for  us  to  discuss  thoseauthorities  and  to  consider their  applicability  in	 thematter of the interpretation of the corresponding provisionsof  our Constitution.  For the moment we prefer	 to  confineour observations to a consideration of waiver of the  breachof the fundamental right under Art. 14.Learned	 Attorney General has relied on three  decisions  ofthis  Court:  (1) Laxmanappa Hanumantappa Jamkhandi  v.	 TheUnion  of India (2), (2) Dewan Bahadur Seth Gopal Das  Mohtav.  The Union of India (3) and (3) Baburao Narayanrao  Sanasv.  The	 Union of India(4) in support of his thesis  that  abreach	of Art. 14 may well be waived by a person.  In	noneof  those cases, all of which were disposed of on  the	sameday   (October	21,  1954)  was	 the  question	 of   waiverspecifically  or  seriously discussed.	As  learned  counselappearing  for the intervener points out, the first  of	 theabove mentioned cases proceeded on the footing that as	Art.265  was not a fundamental right conferred by Part  III,  itcould  not be enforced under Art. 32.  Learned	counsel	 forthe  intervener further submitted that the decision  in	 the2nd  case  mentioned above could also be explained  on	thatbasis and on -the further ground that proceeding under	Art.32 was not(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 874, 918.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 773.(2)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769(4)  [1954] 26 I.T.R. 725.intended  to  be  used	for  obtaining	relief	against	 thevoluntary action of a person and that appropriate remedy forrecovery  of money lay in a suit.  The decision in  the	 3rdcase  proceeded	 on  the same basis and did  not  carry	 thematter any further.  It is impossible to treat any of  thosedecisions  as  representing the considered opinion  of	thisCourt  on  the	question  of  waiver  of  a  breath  of	 thefundamental  right  under  Art.	 14  of	 the   Constitution.Reference  was also made by the learned Attorney General  tothe  decision of a Single Judge of the Allahabad High  Courtin  Subedar v. State (1) where it was held that	 Art.  20(3)conferred  merely a privilege and that such privilege  couldalways	be waived It was overlooked that if a person  volun-tarily answered any question then there was no breach of hisfundamental right at all, for the fundamental right is	thata  person  shall not be compelled  to  incriminate  himself.That  case, therefore, is not a case of waiver at all.	 Thecase of Pakhar Singh v. The State (2) is also, for the	samereason, not a case of waiver.Be.  (2):  The answer to this question	depends	 upon  factswhich  have not been properly investingated.  The appeal  isagainst the order of the income tax authorities which  ordermakes  no  reference  to the plea of  waiver.	Further	 thefiling of the statements of case having been dispensed with,we  have  not had the benefit of the statement of  facts  onwhich  this plea is said to be founded.	 The view  taken  onquestion (1), however, relieves us of the necessity of goinginto this question.On  a consideration of the nature of the  fundamental  rightflowing from Art. 14, we have no doubt in our mind that	 it-is  not	 for a citizen or any other person who	benefits  byreason	of  its	 provisons  to	waive  any  breach  of	 theobligation on the part of the State.  We are, therefore,  ofthe  opinion that this appeal should be accepted, the  orderof  the	 Income Tax Commissioner, Delhi, dated	January	 29,1958,  should be set aside and all proceedings	now  pendingfor  implementation  of the order of  the  Union  Governmentdated July 5, 1954,(1)  A. I. R. 1957 All. 396.(2)  A. 1. R. 1958 Punj. 294.556should	be quashed and that the assessee  appellant,  shouldget the costs of this appeal.BHAGWATI,  J.-I	 agree with the reasoning  adopted  and	 theconclusion reached in the judgments prepared by My Lord	 theChief  Justice and my brother, S. K. Das, J., in  regard  tothe  ultra vires character of the proceedings adopted  unders. 8-A of the Taxation on Income (Investigation	 Commission)Act,  1947  (30	 of 1947), and the  void  character  of	 thesettlement reached thereunder.	As regards the parts of	 thejudgments which deal with the question whether a fundamentalright guaranteed by the Constitution can be waived at all, Ifind  myself in agreement with the judgment prepared  by  mybrother, Subba Rao, J., and am of the opinion that it is notopen to a citizen to waive the fundamental rights  conferredby Part III of the Constitution.The  question of waiver came to be argued before us in	thisway.If the proceedings and the settlement under section	 8-Aof the Act were void as aforesaid, the respondent  contendedthat   the  appellant  had  waived  the	 fundamental   rightenshrined  in Art. 14 of the Constitution and was  thereforenot entitled to challenge the settlement.  This was only  byway of reply to the contention of the appellant and was	 notset  out in proper details in any affidavit filed on  behalfof  the respondent.  The learned Attorney-General,  however,relied upon the application made by the appellant before theInvestigation  Commission and the contents thereof  as	alsothe  payments made by the appellant from time to  time	bothbefore and after the pronouncement of our decision in M. Ct.Muthiah	 v.  The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras  (1)  inorder  to  support  this plea of waiver	 and  the  argumentsbefore	us proceeded on that basis.  No objection was  takenby  either of the parties before us to the issue  of  waiverbeing decided on such materials and the question was  arguedat  considerable length before us.  The	 arguments  moreoverextended  to the whole field of fundamental rights and	werenot confined to Art. 14 only.(1)  [1955] 2 S. C. R. 1247.		    557We,  therefore,	 see no reason why we  should  refrain	frompronouncing our opinion on that question.The  preamble to our Constitution, Art. 13 and the  languagein  which the fundamental rights have been enacted  lead  toone conclusion and one conclusion only that whatever be	 theposition  in America, no distinction can be drawn  here,  ashas been attempted in the United States of America,  betweenthe  fundamental  rights  which may be	said  to  have	beenenacted for the benefit of the individual and those  enactedin public interest or on grounds of public policy.  Ours  isa  nascent  democracy.	and situated as	 we  are,  socially,economically,  educationally  and  politically,	 it  is	 thesacred	   duty	 of  the  Supreme  Court  to   safeguard thefundamental  rights  which  have been  for  the	 first	timeenacted in Part III of our Constitution.  The limitations onthose  rights have been enacted in the Constitution  itself,e.g., in Arts. 19, 33 and 34.  But unless and until we	findthe  limitations on such fundamental rights enacted  in	 thevery   provisions   of	the  Constitution,   there   is	  nojustification  whatever for importing any notions  from	 theUnited	States of America or the authority of cases  decidedby  the	 Supreme Court there in order to  whittle  down	 theplenitude of the fundamental rights enshrined in Part III ofour Constitution.The genesis of the declaration of fundamental rights in	 ourConstitution can be traced to the following passage from theReport of the Nehru Committee (1928):-" Canada, Australia and South Africa have no declaration  ofrights in their Constitutions but there are various articlesto  be	found in the Constitution of the  Irish	 Free  Statewhich  may  properly  be grouped under the  general  head  "fundamental  rights  ". The reason for this is	not  far  toseek.	Ireland	 is the only country  where  the  conditionsobtaining  before  the treaty were the nearest	approach  tothose we have in India.	 The first concern of the people  ofIreland was, as indeed it is of the people of India  to-day,to secure fundamental rights that have been denied to  them.The other dominions had their rise from earlier British558settlements  which were supposed to have carried the law  ofEngland	 with  them.  Ireland was taken and kept  under	 therule of England against her own will and the acquisition  ofdominion status by her became a matter of treaty between thetwo  nations.  We conceive that the constitutional  positionin India is very much the same.	 That India is a  dependencyof  Great  Britain cannot be denied.  That position  can  bealtered	 in one of two ways-force or mutual consent.  It  isthe  latter  in furtherance of which we are called  upon  torecommend  the principles of a constitution for	 India.	  Indoing so it is obvious that our first care should be to haveour fundamental rights guaranteed in a manner which will notpermit their withdrawal under any circumstances."At  the Round Table Conference that preceded the  making  ofthe  Government of India Act, 1935, therefore,	the,  Indianleaders	 pressed  for  a  Bill of  Rights  in  the  proposedConstitution  Act, in order to bind the administration	withcertain	 declarations  of  individual  rights.	 This	was,however,  rejected  by	the  Simon  Commission	with   theseobservations:"  We are aware that such provisions have been	inserted  inmany Constitutions, notably in those of the European  Statesformed	after the War.	Experience, however, has  not  shownthem   to  be  of  any	great  practical  value.    Abstractdeclarations  are  useless unless there exist the  will	 andmeans to make them effective."The  framers  of  our  Constitution  however  followed	 theAmerican  view represented by the famous words of  Jeffersonin preference to that expressed by the Simon Commission :-"  The	inconveniences of the declaration are, that  it	 maycramp  government in its useful exertions.  But the evil  ofthis   is   short-lived,  moderate   and   reparable.	 Theinconveniences	of the want of a declaration are  permanent,afflictive   and   irreparable.	  They	 are   in   constantprogression  from  bad	to  worse.   The  executive  in	 ourgovernments  is not the sole, it is scarcely  the  principalobject	of my jealousy.	 The tyranny of the legislatures  isthe most formidable dread...................559(Vide  Basu's Commentary on the Constitution of India,	Vol.1, p. 74).and  incorporated the fundamental rights in Part III of	 ourConstitution.The object sought to be achieved was as the preamble to	 theConstitution  states  "	 to secure  to	all  its  -citizens:JUSTICE, social, economic and political; -]LIBERTY of statusand of opportunity; and to promote among them all FRATERNITYassuring the dignity of the individual and the unity of	 theNation and Art. 13 provided:-"  13.	(1)  All laws in force in  the	territory  of  Indiaimmediately before the commencement of this Constitution, inso far as they are inconsistent with the provisions of	thisPart, shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be void.(2)  The  State shall not make any law which takes  away  orabridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law	madein contravention of this clause shall, to the extent of	 thecontravention, be void..........." Laws in force " were defined in Art. 13(3) to include :"  Laws passed or made by a Legislature or  other  competentauthority in the territory of India before the	commencementof   this   Constitution  and	not   previously   repealed,notwithstanding	 that any such law or any part	thereof	 maynot  be	 then in operation either at all  or  in  particularareas "and  they  were	 declared  void, in  so	 far  as  they	wereinconsistent with the provisions of this Part, to the extentof such inconsistency.	As regards laws to be enacted  afterthe  commencement  of the Constitution, the  State,  in	 thewider significance of the term as including " the Governmentand   Parliament  of  India  and  the  Government  and	 thelegislature  of	 each of the States and all local  or  otherauthorities  within  the  territory of India  or  under	 thecontrol	 of  the Government of India " (Vide  Art.  12)	 wasenjoined  not to make any law which takes away	or  abridgesthe rights conferred by this Part and 'any law made in	con-travention of this clause was to the extent of the560contravention  declared	 void.	 It will be  seen  that	 theprohibition  was  thus effective both against past  laws  aswell as future laws and both were equally void in so far  asthey -were " inconsistent with " or " in derogation of " thefundamental   rights   enshrined   in  Part   III   of	 theConstitution. no distinction was made between the past	lawsand future laws in this respect and they were declared	voidto  the	 extent of the inconsistency or the  extent  of	 thecontravention a,,; the case may be, leaving the	 unoffendingparts thereof untouched.It will be also seen that under Art. 13(2) an admonition wasadministered  to the State not to enact any law which  takesaway  or abridges the rights conferred by this Part and	 theobligation thus imposed on the State enured for the  benefitof  all	 citizens  of Bharat alike in  respect	of  all	 thefundamental rights enacted in Part III of the  Constitution.No  distinction	 was made in terms between  the	 fundamentalrights	said  to have been enacted for the  benefit  of	 theindividual  and those enacted in the public interest  or  ongrounds of public policy.The question then arises whether a breach of the  obligationthus  imposed on the State can be waived by a  citizen.	  Toborrow the words of My Lord the Chief Justice " In the	faceof   such   unequivocal	 admonition  administered   by	 theConstitution,  which is the supreme law of the land,  is  itopen  to  the State to disobey	the  Constitutional  mandatemerely because a citizen told the State that it may do so  ?if  the Constitution asks the State as to why the State	 didnot  carry  out its behest, will it be any  answer  for	 theState to make that " True, you directed me not to take	awayor  abridge  the  rights conferred by this  Part,  but	thiscitizen said that I could do so, for he had no objection  tomy doing so." I do not think the State will be in any betterposition than the position in which Ad-am found himself whenGod asked him as to why he had eaten the forbidden fruit andthe  State's above answer will be as futile as that of	Adamwho pleaded that the woman had tempted him and Bo he ate theforbidden  fruit."  It is absolutely clear on a	 perusal  ofArt.  13(2) of the Constitution that it is a  constitutionalmandate561,to  the	 State	'and no citizen can by any  act	 or  conductrelieve the State of the solemn obligation imposed on it  byArt. 13(2) and no distinction can be made at all between thefundamental rights enacted for the benefit of the individualand  those enacted in the public interest or on	 grounds  ofpublic policy.What  then  is the basis of this distinction  which  has  bestrenuously   urged  before  us	 that  there   are   certainfundamental  rights which are enacted only for	the  privatebenefit of a citizen, e.g., rights of property, which can bewaived by him and there are other fundamental rights enactedfor the public good or as a matter of public policy which itwould not be open to a citizen to waive even though he	wereaffected by the breach thereof.	 Reliance is placed in	thisbehalf	on  certain decisions of the Supreme  Court  of	 theUnited	States of America, passages from Willoughby,  Willisand   Rottschaeffer,  quoted  in  the  judgment	 of  T.	  L.Venkatarama  Aiyar, J., in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka  v.	 TheState of Bombay (1) and the observations of the said learnedJudge in that case adopting the said distinction. (Vide	 pp.638-643 of the Report).	 I am afraid this distinction cannotbe  accepted.  There is nothing in the terms of the  variousarticles embodying the fundamental rights in Part III of ourConstitution   which  warrants	such  a	 distinction.	 Thefundamental  rights  are  enacted  with	 all  precision	 andwherever  limitations on their exercise are thought of	theyare also similarly enacted.  Such constitutional limitationsare to be found within the terms of the articles  themselvesand  there is no justification for reading in the  terms  ofthe  articles  anything more than what is  expressly  statedtherein.   There  is further this  distinction	between	 theAmerican  Constitution	and ours that whereas  the  AmericanConstitution  was  merely enacted in order to  form  a	moreperfect	  union,   establish   justice,	  insure    domestictranquillity,  provide	for  common  defence,  promote	 thegeneral welfare and secure the blessings of liberty and	 wasan outline of government and nothing more, our	Constitutionwas(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.71   562enacted	 to  secure  to	 all  citizens,	 justice,  Liberty.'Equality  and  Fraternity and laid emphasis on	the  welfarestate and contained more detailed provisions,, defining	 therights	and also laying down restrictions thereupon  in	 theinterest of the general welfare, etc. -As observed by  Willsin his Constitutional Law at p. 477:-"The  conflict between man and the state is as old as  humanhistory.   For	this reason some compromise must  be  struckbetween private liberty and public authority.  There is someneed  of  protecting personal liberty  against	governmentalpower  and  also some need of limiting personal	 liberty  bygovernmental  power.   The ideal situation is  a  matter  ofbalancing  one against the other, or  adjusting	 conflictinginterests."" In the United States Constitution an attempt has been madeto  strike  a proper balance between  personal	liberty	 andsocial control through express limitations written into	 theConstitution  and  interpreted	by  the	 Supreme  Court,  byimplied limitations created by the Supreme Court, and by thedevelopment of the governmental powers of regulation,  taxa-tion,  and eminent domain by the Supreme Court."  (Ibid	 pp.477-478),whereas our Constitution has expressly sought to strike	 thebalance between a written guarantee of individual rights andthe collective interests of the community by making  expressprovisions  in that behalf in Part III of the  Constitution.(Vide Gopalan v. State of Madras) (1).Moreover in the matter of considering the statements of lawmade  by the text book writers in America and the  dicta  ofthe  judges  of	 the  Supreme Court  there  in	the  variousdecisions  cited  before  us,  we  must	 bear  in  mind	 thefollowing  admonition  of Patanjali Sastri, C.	J.,  in	 theState of Travancore-Cochin v. The Bombay Co., Ltd. (2)." These clauses are widely different in language, scope	 andpurpose, and a varying body of doctrines(1) [1950] S.C.R. 88.(2) [1952] S.C.R.1112, 1120and tests have grown around them interpreting, extending  orrestricting,   from  time  to  time,  their  operation	 andapplication  in	 the  context  of  the	expanding   Americancommerce  and industry, and we are of opinion that not	muchhelp  can  be  derived	from them in  the  solution  of	 theproblems arising under Art. 286	 of the Indian Constitution"or   for  the  matter  of  that,  articles   embodying	 thefundamental rights in Part III of our Constitution (see alsoThe State of Bombay v. R. M. D. Chamarbaugwala(1)The  rights conferred on citizens may be thus  classified  :(i) statutory rights; (ii) constitutional rights; and  (iii)fundamental  rights.   One need not consider  the  statutoryrights	in  this context but the constitutional	 rights	 arethose  created and conferred by the Constitution.  They	 mayor  may not be waived by a. citizen, as stated in  the	textbooks  and the decisions of the Supreme Court of the  UnitedStates	of America above referred to.  But when	 the  rightsconferred  are	put  on a high pedestal and  are  given	 thestatus	of fundamental rights, which though embodied in	 theConstitution itself are in express terms distinguished	fromthe  other constitutional rights (e.g.,	 fundamental  rightswhich are enshrined in Part III of the Constitution and	 areenacted as immune from any legislation inconsistent with  orderogatory thereto and other constitutional rights which areenacted	 in other provisions, for instance in Arts. 265	 and286  and  in  Part  XIII  of  the  Constitution),  they	 areabsolutely  inviolable	save  as expressly  enacted  in	 theConstitution  and  cannot  be  waived  by  a  citizen.	 TheConstitution  adopted by our founding fathers is  sacrosanctand  it is not permissible to tinker with those	 fundamentalrights	by any ratiocination or analogy of the decisions  ofthe Supreme Court of the United States of America.  The onlymanner in which that can be done is by appropriate amendmentof the Constitution and in no other manner whatever.There is no difficulty whatever in working out this positionand to my mind the difficulties pointed out(1)  [1957] S.C.R. 874, 918.564are more imaginary than real.  If a citizen wanted to asserthis fundamental right under the circumstances envisaged	 forinstance  in the judgment of my brother S. K. Das,  J.,	 andmade an application for a writ under Art. 32 or Art. 226  ofthe  Constitution he would be promptly confronted  with	 theargument  that	the  Court should in  the  exercise  of	 itsdiscretion refuse him the relief prayed for.  The remedy  ispurely	discretionary  and no Court in	those  circumstanceswould  exercise @ its discretion in his favour	(Vide  DewanBahadur Seth Gopal Das Mohta v. Union of India (1),  BaburaoNarayan	  Savas	  v.  Union  of	 India(2)   and	  LaxmanappaHoonmantappa Janakhandi v. Union of India (3).	Even then hemight merely obtain a relief declaring the legislation ultravires the Constitution and the Court would not grant him anyconsequential  relief  For  that relief	 he  would  have  toapproach  the regular courts of law, when all  questions  oflaw, apart from the mere constitutionality of the  provisionwould  be considered by the Court on a contest	between	 thepar. ties, e.g., estoppel, acquiescence, limitation and	 thelike (Compare our observations in Sales Tax Officer, Banarasv.  Kanayalal  Mukundlal Saraf (4) ). The only	thing  whichparties	 would be concluded by would be the adjudication  asto the ultra vire's character of the measure in question andthe  citizen  would not be entitled to	the  relief  claimedmerely for the asking.	These considerations, therefore,  donot  militate  against the position that  a  citizen  cannotwaive the fundamental rights conferred upon him by Part	 IIIof the Constitution.I fully endorse the opinion expressed by Mahajan, C. J.,  inBehram Khursheed Pesikaka v. The State of Bombay (5) at page653 :-,,We  think that the rights described as fundamental  rightsare  a	necessary  consequence of  the	declaration  in	 thepreamble that the people of India have solemnly resolved  toconstitute -India into a(1)  [1955] I S.C.R. 773.(3)  [19551 1 S.C.R. 769.(2)  [1954] 26 I.T.R. 725.(4)  Civil  Appeal No. 87 Of 1957 decided on  September	 23,1958.(5)  [1955] 1 S. C. R. 613.565sovereign  democratic  republic	 and to secure	to  all	 itscitizens justice, social, economic and political; liberty ofthought, expression, belief, faith and worship; equality  ofstatus	and of opportunity.  These fundamental	rights	havenot  been  put	in the Constitution  merely  for  individualbenefit,  though  ultimately  they come	 into  operation  inconsidering individual rights.	They have been put there  asa  matter  of public policy and the doctrine of	 waiver	 canhave  no  application to provisions of law which  have	beenenacted as a, matter of constitutional policy."This,  in  my  opinion is the true position  and  it  cannottherefore  be urged that it is open to a citizen  to,  waivehis  fundamental  rights  conferred  by	 Part  III  of	 theConstitution.	The  Supreme  Court is the  bulwark  of	 thefundamental  rights  which  have been  for  the	 first	timeenacted in the Constitution and it would be a, sacrilege  towhittle	 down  those rights in the manner  attempted  to  bedone.The  result  is however the same and  agree with  the  orderproposed by My Lord the Chief Justice.S.   K.	 DAS J.-This is an appeal by special leave  from  anorder dated January 29, 1958, passed by the Commissioner  ofIncome-tax,   Delhi,   respondent  no.	1  before   us,	  incircumstances  which  are somewhat unusual and	out  of	 theordinary.   We shall presently relate  those  circumstances;but  at the very outset it may be stated that two  questionsof  far-reaching importance fall for consideration  in	thisappeal.	  One is the validity of a settlement made under  s.8A of the Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act,1947 (30 of 1947) hereinafter referred to as the Act,  afterthe  coming  into force of the Constitution on	January	 26,1950, and the second is if a fundamental right guaranteed bythe  Constitution  can be said to have been  waived  by	 theappellant in the circumstanoes of this case.'The  appellant before us is Basheshar Nath, whom  we  shallhereafter call the assessee.  As we have already stated, theCommissioner of Income-tax, Delhi, is the first	 respondent,The second respondent566is  the Union of India.	 We also allowed the Model  KnittingIndustries, a limited liability Company with its  registeredoffice	in  Calcutta,  to intervene in the  appeal,  on	 theground	that the intervening Company has a case	 pending  inthe  High Court of Calcutta where the same questions are  inissue.	We have also heard the intervener in support of	 theappeal.On  behalf of the appellant it has been' contended that	 theCommissioner of Income-tax, Delhi, is a tribunal within	 themeaning	 of  Art,  136 of  the	Constitution  and  exercisedjudicial  functions  when it passed the	 impugned  order  ofJanuary	 29,  1958.  The respondents pointed  out,  however,that  the  so-called  order was nothing but  a	reply  whichrespondent no.	1 gave to a communication received, from theassessee.  However, the respondents have waived any prelimi-nary objection to the maintainability of the present appeal,and   the  learned  Attorney  General  appearing   for	 therespondents has frankly stated before us that he is  raisingno  such preliminary objection, as the Union  Government  isequally	 anxious  to have a decision on the  question,	veryimportant  from	 its  point of view  and  with	far-reachingfinancial  consequences,  as to whether	 a  settlement	madeunder  s.  8A  of the Act after January 26,  1950,  and	 theorders passed thereon by the Union Government are valid.  Wehave,  therefore, proceeded on the footing that the  presentappeal	is competent, and have considered it unnecessary  todecide	in the abstract the more general question as to	 thecircumstances in which an order made by a revenue  authoritylike   the  Commissioner  of  Income-tax  partakes  of	 thecharacter of A judicial or quasi-judicial order.Now,  for the facts and circumstances which have led  up  tothis  appeal.  The Act received the assent of the  Governor-General	 on  April 18, 1947, and came into force on  May  1,1947.	On  July  22, 1948, the case  of  the  assessee	 wasreferred  to the Investigation Commission, constitued  unders.  3 of the Act.  The reference was made under s.  5(1)  ofthe  Act,  and it ,stated that the  Central  Government	 hadprima  facie reasons for believing that the assessee  eitheralone or		    567in  combination	 with'	other  persons	evaded	payment	  oftaxation  on income to a substantial extent,  and  thereforethe  case  of  the asseesee was sent  to  the  InvestigationCommission  for	 investigation and report.   The  period  ofinvestigation was from April 1, 1939 to March 31, 1947.	 Thereport	of the Investigation Commission which has been	madeavailable to us shows that the case against the assessee wasthat he carried on a business of supplying tents,  executingcontract works, and commission agency for some textile millson  a  fairly  extensive scale,	 both  individually  and  inpartnership  With  his brother.	 It appears that  the  totalwealth	statement of the assessee was filed on November	 10,1948, and was forwarded to an authorised official  appointedunder  s. 6(3) of the Act.  From January 8, 1949 to  October14,  1949  the	authorized  official  was  engaged  in	 thecollection  of assessment records of the assessee  from	 theincome-tax  authorities	 and  of materials  from  the  CivilSupplies  Directorate.	 On July 5, 1949, the  total  wealthstatement was received back from the assessee and the order-,sheet	shows  that  on May 26, 1950, (that  is,  after	 thecoming	into  force  of	 the  Constitution)  the  authorisedofficial is-sued a notice to the assessee fixing the hearingfor June 10, 1950.  The assessee then asked for time, and itappears	 that for a period of about three years	 till  June,1953, nothing was done.	 Thereafter, the authorised officialheld a preliminary investigation and computed intially	thatthe  undisclosed income ,of the assessee for the  period  inquestion   was	Rs.  12,07,000;	 on  further  scrutiny	 andexamination  of	 accounts and after heating  the  assessee'sexplanation,  the authorised official reduced the amount  inhis  final  report, submitted sometime towards	the  end  of1953,	to  Rs.	 9,56,345.   The  Investigation	  Commissionconsidered the report of the authorised official, heard	 theassessee,  and came to the conclusion that the total  amountto  be	assessed  in  the hands	 of  the  assessee  was	 Rs'4,47,915.    In	 their	report	dated  May  24,	  1954	 theInvestigation Commission said:"   During the course of the hearing before us,the  assesseeas well as his Auditors applied for a568settlement after admitting liability for the aforesaid	sum.In  the	 circumstances, we consider it proper to  allow	 theassessee   the	benefit	 of  a	settlement  on	 the   lowerconcessional basis of 75% of evaded income payable by way oftax and a moderate penalty of Rs, 14,064....... The assesseeaccepting our findings both as regards the amount of  incomethat  escaped assessment and the amount of tax	and  penaltypayable, offered a settlement.	In the circumstances, we re-commend	 the acceptance by the Government of the  assessee'soffer of a settlement."The  Central Government accepted the settlement under s.  8Aof  the	 Act and on July 5, 1954, passed an order  under  s.8A(2) directing the issue of a demand notice by the  Income-tax  Officer concerned for a sum of Rs. 3,50,000  (includingthe  penalty  of  Rs. 14,064) on the  assessee	and  furtherdirecting that " all such other proceedings under the IndianIncome-tax Act or under any other law, as may be  necessary,should be taken with a view to enforcing the payment of	 thedemand	and the terms and conditions of settlement."  Thoughunder the terms of settlement no instalments were given,  itappears	 that the assessee was allowed to pay the amount  atthe rate of Rs. 5,000 per month.  It further appears that upto and including September 8, 1957, the assessee had paid inall a sum of Rs. 1,28,000 towards the demand.  In  December,1955 was given the decision of this Court in M. CT.  Muthiahv. The Commissioner of Income tax, Madras (1), in which	 themajority  of Judges held that s. 5(1) of the Act  was  ultravires  the  Constitution,  as  it  was	discriminatory	 andviolative of the fundamental right guaranteed by Art. 14  ofthe Constitution by reason of two amendments which were madein  s. 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act 1922-one in  1948  bythe  enactment of the Income. tax and Business	Profits	 Tax(Amendment) Act, 1948 (48 of 1948) and the other in 1954  bythe enactment of the Indian Income-tax (Amendment) Act, 1954(33  of	 1954).	 Sometime earlier than the  aforesaid  deci-sion, the Income-tax Officer concerned had sent a(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247,		    569recovery  certificate to the Collector, New Delhi,  and	 theassessee  stated that in execution of the  said	 certificatehis  properties	 situated  in  Dharamsala  and	Hissar	wereattached.   On	December  27, 1957,  the  assessee  filed  apetition  to  the Income-tax Commissioner, Delhi,  in  whichafter stating the relevant facts, the assessee claimed that,after  the  decision in Muthiah's case (1),  the  settlementmade under s. 8A of the Act had no force and was not bindingon   him:  the	assessee  then	prayed	that  the   attachedproperties  should  be	released  from	attachment  and	 theamounts recovered under the terms of settlement refunded  tohim.   On January 29, 1958, the Commissioner  of  Income-taxsent the following reply-"  With reference to your petition dated 27th December	1957regarding  the settlement arrived at under section 8A(2)  ofthe Taxation on Income (Investigation Commission) Act, 1947,1 am to inform you that the settlement is valid and  bindingon you.2.   You are' therefore, requested to make good the  arrearsof  instalments	 which	you have not paid  recently  by	 5thFebruary,  1958 and also to continue making the payments  inaccordance  with the instalments' scheme agreed to,  failingwhich  the recovery proceedings will be	 vigorously  pursuedthrough the usual recovery channels."The assessee asked for and obtained special leave from	thisCourt  on  February 17, 1958, to appeal from  the  aforesaidorder.	In the appeal as orginally filed in pursuance of thespecial	 leave granted to the assessee, the  prayer  portionwas  inadvertently  left out.	Subsequently,  the  assesseeprayed	that-(a) the report of the Investigation  Commissiondated  May 24, 1954, be quashed, (b) the settlement made  onthe  basis  of the report and the directions  given  by	 theCentral Government in pursuance thereof and the	 proceedingsfor  recovery of arrears of tax be all quashed, and (c)	 theamounts	 already  recovered may be ordered to  be  refunded.With  regard to the last prayer, we may state here  that  itwas not pressed before us and we are relieved from the task,at least in this appeal, of(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.72570deciding in what circumstances and on what considerations  arefund of tax voluntarily paid can be claimed.Therefore, the first and foremost question before us is	 thevalidity  of the settlement made under S. 8A of	 ,-the	Act.On behalf of the assessee the main argument is that s.	5(1)of  the Act having been held ultra vires  the  Constitution,the  very  foundation for the report  of  the  InvestigationCommission has disappeared and a settlement based thereon isneither	 valid,	 nor can it be enforced.  On behalf  of	 therespondents, the learned Attorney General has contended thatthere  is no decision of this Court which has held  that  s.5(1) of the Act is wholly void and on a proper	constructionof  the various sections of the Act, it will be	 found	thatthere	are   two  separate  and  distinct   procedures	  orjurisdictions which the Investigation Commission may  followor  exercise: one is investigation and the other relates  tosettlement.    He  has	submitted  that	  the	jurisdictionconferred on the Investigation Commission under s. 8A, whichwas inserted in the Act in 1949 by s. 33 of Act 67 of  1949,is  not affected by the decision in Muthiah's case (1),	 andif   the  Investigation	 Commission  had   jurisdiction	  toentertain  an application from the assessee for	 settlement,approve of the same, and refer it to the Central Government,the  latter  had also jurisdiction to accept it	 under	sub-s.(1) and make necessary orders under sub.s. (2) of s. 8A.Inshort, the argument of the learned Attorney General is	thatthere is nothing in Muthiah's decision (1), which renders s.8A constitutionally invalid.It  is	necessary  to  read  at	 this  stage  the   relevantprovisions  of	the  Act in so far as  they  bear  upon	 theproblems  before  us.  We have said that the Act  came	intoforce on May 1, 1947.  This was before the coming into forceof  the	 Constitution  of  India, and  no  question  of	 theviolation  of  any  fundamental	 rights	 guaranteed  by	 theConstitution  arose  on	 that date.  Section 3	of  the	 Actempowers  the Central Government (now Union  Government)  toconstitute   a	Commission  to	be  called  the	  Income-taxInvestigation(1)  [1955] 2 S. C. R. 1247.571Commission, whose duties shall be (to quote the words of thesection)-"  (a) to investigate and report to the Central	 Governmenton  all	 matters  relating  to	taxation  on  income,	withparticular reference to the extent to which the existing lawrelating   to,	and  procedure	for,  the'  assessment	 andcollection  of	such  taxation is adequate  to	prevent	 theevasion thereof ;(b)to investigate in accordance with the provisions of	thisAct any case or point in a case referred to it	undersection5 and make a report thereon (including such interim  reportsas  the Commission may think fit) to the Central  Governmentin respect of all or any of the assessments made in relationto the case before the date of its report or interim report,as the case may be."We  are	 concerned  in	this appeal with  the  duty  of	 theCommission  referred to in s. 3(b) above.  Section  4  dealswith the composition of the Commission, details whereof	 areunnecessary  for our purpose, Sub-sections (1), (2) and	 (4)of  s. 5 are relevant to the problems before us and must  beread :"  5(1).  The Central Government may at any time before	 the1st  day  of  September 1948 refer  to	the  Commission	 forinvestigation  and  report any case or points in a  case  inwhich  the  Central Government has prima facie	reasons	 forbelieving that a -person has to a substantial extent  evadedpayment	 of taxation on income, together with such  materialas  may be available in support of such belief, and  may  atany time before the 1st day of September, 1948 apply to	 theCommission  for	 the withdrawal of any case or points  in  acase  thus referred, and if the Commission approves  of	 thewithdrawal, no further proceedings shall thereafter be takenby or before the Commission in respect of the case or pointsso withdrawn.(2)  The  Commission  may,  after  examining  the   materialsubmitted  by the Central Government with reference  to	 anycase or points in a case and making such investigation as itconsiders  necessary, report to the Central Government	thatin its opinion further investigation is not likely to revealany substantial572evasion of taxation on income and on such report being	madethe investigation shall be deemed to be closed.(3)........................................................(4)  If	 in  the course of investigation into  any  case  orpoints	in a case referred to it under sub-section (1),	 theCommission has reason to believe-(a)that	 some  person other than the person  whose  case  isbeing investigated has evaded payment of taxation on income,or(b)  that some points other than those referred to it by theCentral	 Government  in	 respect of any	 case  also  requireinvestigation,it  may make a report to the Central Government stating	 itsreasons for such belief and, on receipt of such report,	 theCentral Government shall, notwithstanding anything containedin  sub-section (1), forthwith refer to the  Commission	 forinvestigation  the  case  of  such  other  person  or	suchadditional points as may be indicated in that report."Section 5 as originally enacted mentioned the date, 30th  ofJune, 1948, but by Act 49 of 1948 the date substituted was "1st day of September, 1948 ". Section 6 states the powers ofthe Commission, and they may be summarised thus:(a)  the  Commission  has  power to require  any  person  orbanking	 or  other Company to give information	on  relevantpoints;(b)  it has power to administer oaths and all the powers  ofa  civil court to take evidence, enforce the  attendance  ofwitnesses etc;(c)  it	 has power to impound and retain a document  in	 itscustody;(d)it  has  power to ask an authorised official	 to  examineaccounts and interrogate any person;(e)  it	 has  power  to give  directions  to  an  authorisedofficial;(f)  it has power to close the investigation and make a bestof judgment assessment in respect of a person who refuses orfails  to  attend  in person to	 give  evidence	 or  producedocuments etc; and		    573(g)  it	 has  power  of	 seizure,  search  etc.	 in  certainspecified circumstances.Sections 6A and 6B deal with the power of the Commission  totender	immunity  from	prosecution  and  to  withdraw	suchtender.	  Section 7 states the procedure to be	followed  bythe Commission, sub-ss. (2), (4) and (6)     whereof	needonly be referred to here:"  7(2)	 In  making an investigation  under  clause  (b)  ofsection	 3, the Commission shall act in accordance with	 theprinciples  of	natural	 justice, shall	 follow	 as  far  aspracticable the principles of the Indian Evidence Act,	1872(1  of 1872), and shall give the person whose case is  beinginvestigated  a	 reasonable  opportunity  of  rebutting	 anyevidence   adduced  against  him;  and	the  power  of	 theCommission  to compel production of documents shall  not  besubject	 to  the limitation imposed by section	130  of	 theIndian	Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), and  the  Commissionshall  be  deemed to be a court and  its  proceedings  legalproceedings  for  the  purpose of sections 5 and  6  of	 theBankers' Books Evidence Act, 1891 (XVIII of 1891).(3).........................................................(4)  No	 person shall be entitled to inspect, call  for,  orobtain	copies	of, any documents, statements or  papers  ormaterials  furnished to, obtained by or produced before	 theCommission  or	any authorised official in  any	 proceedingsunder this Act; but the Commission, and after the Commissionhas ceased to exist such authority as the Central Governmentmay  in this behalf appoint, may, in its  discretion,  allowsuch inspection and furnish such copies to any person:Provided that, for the purpose of enabling the person  whosecase or points in whose case is or are being investigated torebut  any  evidence brought on the record against  him,  heshall, on application made in this behalf and on payment  ofsuch fees as may be prescribed by Rules made under this Act,be furnished with certified copies of documents, statements,papers	and materials brought on the record by	the  Commis-Sion.(5).........................................................574(6)  In any proceedings under this Act, the Commission	may,in  its	 discretion,  admit in evidence	 and  act  upon	 anydocument  notwithstanding  that it is not  duly	 stamped  orregistered."Section 8 states in effect what the Commission shall do	  onthe  conclusion	 of the investigation: it  states  that	 thematerials  brought on the record shall be considered by	 allthe members, and the report shall be in accordance with	 theopinion	 of the majority.  Subsection (2) of s. 8 gives	 theCentral	 Government power to direct reopening of  assessmentproceedings  on the report of the  Commission.	 Sub-section(4)   states   that  in	 the  assessment   or	reassessmentproceedings  in pursuance of a direction given under  sub-s.(2), the findings recorded by the Commission shall be final,subject	 to  the provisions of sub-ss. (5)  and	 (6).	Thencomes s. 8A which must be quoted in full:"S. 8A(1) Where any person concerned in any case referred toor  pending before the Commission for investigation  appliesto  the Commission at any time during such investigation  tohave  the case or any part thereof settled in so far  as  itrelates	 to him, the Commission shall, if it is	 of  opinionthat   the  terms  of  the  settlement	contained   in	 theapplication may be approved, refer the matter to the CentralGovernment, and if the Central Government accepts the  termsof  such  settlement, the Commission shall  have  the  termsthereof recorded and thereupon the investigation, in so	 faras  it relates to matters covered by such settlement,  shallbe deemed to be closed.(2)  For   the	purpose	 of  enforcing	the  terms  of	 anysettlement  arrived at in pursuance of subsection  (1),	 theCentral	 Government may direct that such proceedings as	 maybe appropriate under the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922 (XI  of1922), the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940) or	 anyother  law  may	 be taken against the  person  to  whom	 thesettlement  relates, and, in particular, the  provisions  ofthe  second  proviso to clause. (a) of	sub-section  (5)  ofsection	 23, section 24B, the proviso to sub-section (2)  ofsection	 25A, the proviso to sub-section (2) of	 section  26and -sections 44 and 46 of the Indian Income-tax Act, 1922575shall be applicable to the recovery of any sum specified insuch   settlement   by	 the   Income-tax   Officer   havingjurisdiction  to  assess  the person by	 whom  such  sum  ispayable as if it were income-tax or an arrear of  income-taxwithin the meaning of those provisions.(3)  Subject to the provisions of subsection (6) of  section8,  any	 settlement arrived at under this section  shall  beconclusive  as to the matters stated therein, and no  personwhose  case has been so settled shall be entitled to  reopenin  any	 proceeding for the recovery of any sum	 under	thissection	 or  in any subsequent assesssment  or	reassessmentproceeding  relating to taxation on income or in  any  otherproceeding  before any court or other authority	 any  matterwhich forms part of such settlement.(4)  Where  a  settlement has been  accepted  by  Governmentunder  sub-section (1), no proceedings under section  34  ofthe  Indian  Income-tax	 Act, 1922 (XI of  1922),  or  undersection 15 of the Excess Profits Tax Act, 1940 (XV of 1940),shall be initiated in respect of the items of income coveredby the settlement unless the initiation of such	 proceedingsis expressly allowed by the terms of the settlement."Section	 9  bars the jurisdiction of courts, but it  is	 notdisputed that if any of the provisions of the Act are  ultravires  the Constitution, s. 9 will neither cure	 the  defectnor stand in the way of the assessee.  Section 10, the	lastsection, gives the Central Government power to make rules.The  above  recital  gives a brief conspectus  of  the	mainprovisions  of the Act.	 It is necessary now to refer  to  afew  earlier decisions of this Court with regard to some  ofthese  provisions.   The earliest in point of  time  is	 thedecision  in  Suraj Mall Mohta and Co. v. A.  V.  ViswanathaSastri where sub-s. (4) of S. 5 of the Act and the procedureprescribed  by the Act in so far as it affected the  personsproceeded  against under that sub-section, were held  to  bediscriminatory	and  therefore void and	 unenforceable.	  Noopinion	 was, however, expressed on the validity of s.	5(1)of the Act.(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 448.576In  Shree  Meenakshi  Mills  Ltd.,  Madurai  v.	 Sri  A.  V.Viswanatha  Sastri  (1), it was held that after	 the  cominginto  force  on	 July 17, 1954,	 of  the  Indian  Income-tax(Amendment)  Act, 1954, (33 of 1954) which operated  on	 thesame  field as s. 5(1) of the Act, the provisions  of  s.  5(1) became void and unenforceable as being discriminatory incharacter.   It was further held that when an Act was  validin  its entirety before the date of the	 Constitution,	thatpart  of the proceedings regulated by the special  procedureand  taken during the pre-Constitution period could  not  bequestioned  how. ever discriminator it might have been,	 butthe  discriminatory procedure could not be  continued  afterthe  coming  into force of the Constitution.  In  that	case(Meenakshi Mills' case(1)) the Investigation Commission	 hadnot even commenced the proceedings though a period of  sevenyears had elapsed and the investigation was pending when thewrit  petitions were filed.  In those circumstances  it	 washeld   that   the  proceedings	before	 the   InvestigationCommission  which had become discriminatory could no  longerbe continued.  Then came the decision in M. CT.	 Muthiah  v.The,  Commissioner  of	Income-tax,  Madras(2).	  The  factsrelevant  to  that  decision  were  that  the  InvestigationCommission held an enquiry into three cases and submitted  areport	on August 26, 1952, finding a particular sum  to  bethe undisclosed income during the investigation period.	 TheCentral	 Government accepted the report and passed an  orderunder  s.  8(2) of the Act on September 16,  1952.   Noticesunder  s. 34 of the Indian Income-tax Act were	then  issuedand  reassessments  except  for one year were  made  on	 thefindings of the Commission, which were treated as final	 andconclusive.   The  re-assessment orders were served  on	 theassessees  in February and May 1954.  On December  6,  1954,the  assessees	filed their writ petitions  challenging	 theconstitutionality  of S. 5 (1) of the Act.  It was  held  bythe majority that s. 5 (1) was discriminatory and  violativeof  the	 fundamental right guaranteed under Art. 14  of	 theConstitution,  because s. 34 of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,1922 as(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.577amended	 in  1948 operated on the same field  and  from	 andafter  January 26, 1950, it included the strip of  territorywhich  was also occupied by s. 5 (1) and  two  substantiallydifferent  laws of procedure, one more , prejudicial to	 theassessee than the other, could not be allowed to operate  onthe same field in view of the , guarantee of Art. 14 of	 theConstitution.  In the result it was held that barring  thosecases  which were already concluded by reports made  by	 theCommission and directions given by Government before January26, 1950, the cases which were pending before the commissionfor   investigation  as	 also  assessment  or	reassessmentproceedings which were pending on January 26, 1950, were hitby Art. 14.  The -assessment orders were accordingly quashedas being unconstitutional.Now, we come back to the problems before us: (1) what is theeffect of Muthia's decision(1) in the present ease, and	 (2)does  the  Act contemplate two separate	 and  distinct,	 butseverable,  procedures	or jurisdictions  -one	relating  toinvestigation and the other to settlement, so that the	viceof  discrimination  (if any) attaches to  the  investigationprocedure only and not to the other ?We  do not see how the learned Attorney General	 can  escapefrom  the  position  that Muthia's  decision  (1)  holds  inexpress terms that s. 5 (1) of the Act was hit by Art. 14 ofthe  Constitution on and after January 26, 1950.  The  ratioof the decision was thus explained in the majority  judgmentat page 1260, 1261:-"  After the 8th September, 1948, there were two  proceduressimultaneously	in operation, the one under Act XXX of	1947and the other under the Indian Income tax Act with referenceto persons who fell within the same class or category, viz.,that  of the substantial evaders of income-tax.	  After	 the8th September, 1948, therefore, some persons who fell withinthe  class of substantial evaders of income-tax	 were  dealtwith  under  the drastic and  summary  procedure  prescribedunder Act XXX of 1947, while other(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.73578persons	 who  fell  within the	same  class  of	 substantialevaders	 of  income-tax	 could	be  dealt  with	 under	 theprocedure  prescribed  in the Indian  Income-tax  Act  afterservice of notice upon them under the amended section 34 (1)of  the	 Act.  Different persons, though falling  under	 thesame class or category of substantial evaders of income-tax,would, therefore, be subject to different procedures, one  asummary	 and  drastic  procedure  and  the  other  a  normalprocedure  which gave to the assessees various rights  whichwere  denied to those who were specially treated  under	 theprocedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947.The  legislative competence being there,  these	 provisions,though discriminatory, could not have been challenged beforethe   advent  of  the  Constitution.   When,  however,	 theConstitution came into force on the 26th January, 1950,	 thecitizens  obtained the fundamental rights enshrined in	PartIII  of the Constitution including the right to equality  oflaws  and  equal protection of laws enacted  in	 article  14thereof,  and  whatever may have been  the  position  beforeJanuary	 26,  1950, it was open to the	persons	 alleged  tobelong to the class of substantial evaders thereafter to askas  to	why some of them were subjected to the	summary	 anddrastic	 procedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947 and  otherswere subjected to the normal procedure prescribed in section34  and the cognate sections of the Indian  Income-tax	Act,the procedure prescribed in Act XXX of 1947 being  obviouslydiscriminatory and, therefore, violative of the	 fundamentalright guaranteed under article 14 of the Constitution."That ratio is equally applicable in the present case, and ifs. 5(1) of the Act is unenforceable after January 26,  1950,the reference made thereunder against the assessee must alsofall after that date and with it must go overboard all	thatwas done under the drastic and summary procedure  prescribedunder the Act after January 26,1950.  Two possible argumentsthat  (1) substantial evaders whose s were referred  by	 theCentral Government for investigation by the Commission		    579before	September 1, 1948, formed a class by themselves	 and(2)  that proceedings having started before  the  Commissionunder a reference valid at the time when it was made  cannotbe  affected by any subsequent amendment of  the  Income-taxArt,  1922,  were  raised, but not accepted  in	 Suraj	MallMohta's	 Meenakshi  Mills'  or Muthia's case  (1)  (2)	(3).There  has  been some argument before us as to how  the	 twoprocedures-one	prescribed under the Income-tax	 Act,  1922,and  the other under the Act-compare and contrast with	eachother;	but  this is a point which was	canvassed  at  greatlength	in  each of the three cases mentioned  above.	ThisCourt	found  in  unequivocal	terms  that  the   procedureprescribed  under the Act was more summary and drastic,	 andin  Suraj  Mall	 Mohta's case  the  substantial	 differencesbetween the two procedures were summarised at pp. 463-466 ofthe  report.   We do not propose to cover  the	same  groundagain, but cop-tent ourselves with drawing attention to whatwas  pointedly said in Suraj Mall Mohta's case namely,	thatit  was conceded on behalf of Government that the  procedureprescribed by the impugned Act in ss. 6 and 7, which we haveread earlier, was more drastic than the procedure prescribedin  ss.	 37  and 38 of the Indian Income-tax  Act.   It	 wasstated	 therein  that	though	in  the	 first	 stages	  ofinvestigation  there  was some similarity  between  the	 twoprocedures, the overall picture was not the same.The learned Attorney General has not seriously contested thecorrectness  of this position, but has argued that  what  weare  concerned	with  in the present case is  not  the	merepossibility  of a differential treatment, but what  actuallywas  done  by  the Commission in the  case  of	the  presentassessee after January 26, 1950.  He has submitted that	 theassessee was not subjected to any differential treatment  infact,  and has invoked to his aid the ratio of our  decisionin Syed Qasim Razvi v. The State of Hyderabad (4), where themajority  judgment laid down the following tests: in a	casewhere part of the trial cannot be challenged as(1) [1955] 1S.C.R.448(2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 787.(3)  [1955) 2 S.C.R. 1247.(4)  [1953] S.C.R. 589.580bad, it is incumbent on the court to consider, first whetherthe  discriminatory provisions of the law can  be  separatedfrom  the  rest	 and even without them	a  fair	 measure  ofequality  in  the matter of procedure can  be  secured,	 andsecondly,  whether the procedure -actually followed 'did  ordid  not, proceed upon the discriminatory provisions and  itwas  stated  that a; mere threat or possibility	 of  unequaltreatment  was not sufficient to invalidate  the  subsequentproceedings.   A  reference was there made  to	the  earlierdecisions,  of this Court in Keshavan Madhava Xenon  v.	 TheState  of Bombay (1), and Lachmandas Kewalram Ahuja  v.	 TheState  of Bombay (2 ), and the decision in  Lachmandas	case(supra), again a majority decision, was distinguished on twogrounds: first, the question as to whether after eliminatingthe  discriminatory  provisions	 it was	 still	possible  tosecure a fair measure of equality with the normal  procedurewas neither raised nor considered ; secondly, it was assumedthat  it was not possible to proceed with the trial  withoutfollowing the discriminatory procedure and as that procedurebecame	void on the coming into force of  the  Constitution,the jurisdiction to proceed under that procedure came to  anend.  Applying the tests laid down in the majority  decisionof Syed Qasim Razvi's case (3), the learned Attorney Generalhas  contended that in the present case	 the  discriminatoryprovisions  can be separated from the rest of the  Act,	 andthe assessee was not in fact subjected to any discriminatoryprocedure.   He has sought to distinguish Muthia's  case  onthe same ground, viz., that the re-assessments made in	thatcase were actually based on a discriminatory procedure.In our view the ratio of the majority decision in Syed QasimRazvi's	 case (3) has no application in the case  under	 ourconsideration,	and the principle which applies is what	 waslaid down in Lachmandas's case (2). The majority decision isSyed  Qasim Razvi's case proceeded on the finding (to  quotethe  words  of	Mukherjea, J., who  delivered  the  majorityjudgment)  that " although there were deviations in  certainparticulars,(1) [1951] S. C. R. 228.	   (2) [1952] S. C. R. 71O.(.3) [1953] S. C. R. 589.		    581the  accused  had  substantially the  benefit  of  a  normaltrial".	  The minority judgments, however, very	 pertinentlypointed	 out  that  the discriminatory	provisions  were  anintegral  part	of the Regulation under	 which	the  accusedperson in that case was tried and in fact the discriminatoryprovisions were applied.  Bose, J. (as he then was expressedthe  view  (at p. 618) " that in testing the validity  of  alaw,  it is irrelevant to consider what has been done  underit,  for  a  law is either constitutional  or  not  and	 thevalidity  or  otherwise	 cannot depend upon  what  has	beenaccomplished under its provisions."It  is,	 we think, unnecessary to go  into  the	 controversywhich arises out -of the two views expressed above.  For thepresent	 case,	it  is	sufficient  to	say  that  (1)	 thediscriminatory	provisions  are	 an  integral  part  of	 theprocedure prescribed under the Act which cannot be separatedfrom  the  rest; and (2) we are satisfied  that	 the  reportwhich  led to the settlement was made by  the  InvestigationCommission  in	pursuance of and as a direct result  of	 thediscriminatory	procedure  which it followed.	Indeed,	 theInvestigation  Commission  followed the	 only  procedure  ofinvestigation prescribed under the Act, which was a  drasticand summary procedure, and if that procedure became void  onthe coming into force of the Constitution, the	jurisdictionof  the Investigation Commission practically came to an	 end(see Lachmandas's case, supra).It  is	necessary to explain here why we cannot	 accept	 thecontention  of the learned Attorney General that  there	 aretwo procedures or two jurisdictions under the Act.  What  insubstance is the effect of the provisions of the Act, in  sofar as they relate to the Commission's duty under s. 3	(b)?The  Commission	 receives a reference under s. 5 (1)  if  itdoes  not proceed under s. 5 (2), it exercises such  of	 itspowers	under  s.  6 as it  considers  necessary.   It	thenfollows	 the  procedure laid down in s. 7  and	submits	 itsreport	under s. 8. On that report, the	 Central  Governmenttakes  action  under s. 8 (2).	If,  however,  the  assesseeapplies	 for settlement, even then the Commission  has	the,duty to report to Government if the terms of settlement are582approved  by it.  To fulfil this duty, the  Commission	mustget the materials by exercising its powers under s. 6 and byfollowing  the procedure laid down in s. 7. That is  exactlywhat  was done in the present case.  An authorised  officialwas  asked to examine the accounts etc. under s. 6 (3).	  Heexamined  the  accounts and submitted an interim  report  in1953.	He followed the procedure laid down in the Act	withregard to inspection of documents, examination of  witnessesetc.  He then submitted a final report.	 The Commission thenheard the assesee on May 19, 1954, and reserved orders.	  OnMay 20, 1954, after the assessee knew what the final findingof  the Commission was going to be, he filed an	 applicationfor  settlement.  The Commission made its final report	fourdays  after.   It  is difficult to  understand	how  in	 thecircumstances  stated  above,  it  can	be  said  that	 theCommission  followed a non-discriminatory procedure or	thatit  had two jurisdictions-one relating to investigation	 andthe  other to settlement.  The jurisdiction was really	one,and  the  procedure followed also the same.  It	 is  not  asthough the Act provided a separate procedure for purposes ofeffecting  a  settlement;  nor	is  this  a  case  where   asettlement  has	 been  made  without  applying	any  of	 theprovisions relating to investigation.  A full  investigationwas  made, and after the assessee had been subjected to	 thedrastic	 and  summary procedure under the Act, he  was	toldwhat the result of the investigation was.  Then, he made  anapplication  for  settlement,  which  was  approved  by	 theCommission under s. 8A.We  are	 accordingly of the view that the  learned  AttorneyGeneral	 has failed to make out his case that  (1)  Muthia'sdecision (1) does not apply and (2) the settlement under  s.8A of the Act is a legally valid settlement by reason of theseverability   or  non-application  of	the   discriminatoryprocedure under the Act in the case of the assessee..This  brings me to the second question, that of waiver of  afundamental  right, which is as important as it is  complex.It is a question on which unfortunately we(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R.1247.583have  not been able to achieve unanimity.  It is beset	withthis initial difficulty that the present appeal is not	froma  judgment  or order rendered after the trial	of  properlyframed issues; it is from an order which merely rejected theprayer	of  the	 assessee that his  properties	attached  inexecution of the recovery certificate should be released andthe amounts paid under the terms of the settlement refunded.The  question of waiver was neither raised, nor	 tried;	 andthe  necessary facts were not ascertained or  determined  bythe revenue authority concerned.  Unfortunately, the  filingof  a  statement  of  their case by  the  parties  was	alsodispensed  with,  the  result  whereof	has  been  that	 thequestion of waiver has been urged for the first time in	 thecourse	of  arguments here.  We have,  however,	 heard	fullarguments  on  it,  and	 proceed  to  consider	it  on	suchmaterials as have been placed before us.  It is necessary tomake one point clear.  The respondents have raised the	pleaof  waiver, and the onus lies heavily on them  to  establishthe essential requirements in support of the plea.Two   points  arise  in	 this  connection:  (1)	  have	 therespondents  established,  on the materials before  us,	 thenecessary  facts on which a plea of waiver can be founded  ;and  (2)  if so, can a fundamental right guaranteed  by	 theConstitution  be  waived  at all.  If  the  first  point  isanswered  in  the  negative, the second point  need  not  beanswered in the abstract.  On behalf of the respondents,  ithas  been submitted that assuming (without  conceding)	thatthe discriminatory provisions of the Act were applied in thecase  of the assessee before he asked for a settlement,	 thematerials  on  record -show that he never  objected  to	 theprocedure  adopted, voluntarily asked for a settlement,	 gotby the settlement the benefit. of reducing his liability forboth  tax and penalty, and paid without demur the  followinginstalments (some even after Muthia's decision (1) )(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.P. 1247.584    Payments made up to April 55	 10,000    Payment made on	 10-5-55	  5,000		  19-6-55	   5,000		   7-7-55	   5,000		  13-8-55	   5,OOO		   7-9-55	   5,000		  15-10-55	   5,000		  10-11-55	   5,000		  15-12-55	   5,000		   8-2-56	   5,000		  13-2-56	   5,000		   7-3-56	   5,000		  14-5-56	   5,000		  19-5-56	   5,000		  13-6-56	   5,000		   6-8-56	   5,000		   7-9-56	   5,000		   9-10-56	   5,000		  10-11-56	   5,000		  23-12-56	   5,000		  14-1-57	   5,000		  29-3-57	   5,000		   4-6-57	   5,000		   8-9-57	   8,000				----------				 1,28,000				-----------The  learned  Attorney	General	 has  in  this-	  connectionreferred  us  to the application for  settlement  which	 theassessee  had made to the Commission, wherein the  followingstatements were made:-"  in view of the fact that though no  disclosure  statementhad  been made before the submission of his reports  by	 theauthorised  official,, still during the enquiry	 before	 theCommission,,  the assessee and his auditors  admitted  theirliability  to  tax in respect of the aforesaid	sum  of	 Rs.4,47,915,  the	Commission  was	 of  the  opinion  that	 theassessee  should be granted the benefit of a  settlement  onthe  lower concessional basis of payment of 75 per cent.  ofthe  undisclosed income by way of tax.	The  Commission	 wasalso  of the opinion that the assessee should pay by way  ofpenalty a sum of Rs. 14,064.		    585The  assessee accepts the conclusions of the  Commission  asregards	 the amount of income that escaped  assessment,	 thetax payable thereon and the penalty payable as aforesaid."On  the	 basis	of these statements,  the  learned  AttorneyGeneral	 has  argued  that there is no	foundation  for	 thesuggestion   made  on  behalf  of  the	assessee  that	 theapplication for settlement was made " under the pressure  ofcircumstances  and in view of the coercive machinery of	 theAct." He has submitted that the necessary facts on which theplea of waiver is founded have been established, and he	 hasrelied on three cases decided by this Court, where accordingto him the effect of the decisions was to accept such a pleain circumstances very similar: Dewan Bahadur Seth Gopal	 DasMohta v. The Union of India(1); Baburao Narayanrao Sanas  v.The   Union  of	 India	(2);  and  Laxnanappa	HanumantappaJamkhandi  v.  The  Union  of India (3)	 On  behalf  of	 theassessee, it is contended on the contrary that the necessaryfacts  to found a plea of waiver are totally absent  in	 thepresent	 case,	and none of the	 aforesaid  three  decisionswhich were all pronounced on the same day proceed on a	pleaof waiver.Two  of	 the three decisions referred to above relate  to  asettlement  made under s. 8A and the third to an order	madeunder  s.  8(2) of the Act.  All the  three  decisions	werepronounced  on	applications  made  under  Art.	 32  of	 theConstitution,  and  not on any appeal from an order  of	 therevenue	 authority.   In  Gopal Das  Mohta's  case  (1)	 theargument  urged was, inter alia, that ss. 5, 6, 7 and  8  ofthe Act were invalid and ultra vires as they contravened theprovisions  of	Arts.  14,  19	(1)  (f),  and	31  of	 theConstitution  and  the	prayer	made  was  that	 the  entireproceedings should be quashed as also all orders made by theCentral	 Government in pursuance of the settlement under  s.8A.   In rejecting the argument and prayer, Mahajan, C.	 J.,who delivered the , judgment of the Court said at p. 776-(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 773.	 (2) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 725.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 769.74586"  In  our judgment this petition  is  wholly  misconceived.Whatever tax the petitioner has already paid, or whatever isstill recoverable from him, is being recovered on the  basisof  the	 settlement  proposed by him  and  accepted  by	 theCentral Government.  Because Of his request for a settlementno assessment was made against him by following the whole ofthe  -procedure	 of the Income-tax Act.	 In  this  situationunless	and  until  the petitioner can	establish  that	 hisconsent	 was  improperly procured and that he is  not  boundthereby	 he  cannot  complain that any	of  his	 fundamentalrights	has been contravened for which he can  claim  reliefunder  art.  32 of the Constitution.  Article 32  of  ',,theConstitution   is  not	intended  for  relief  against	 thevoluntary actions of a person.	His remedy, if any, lies  inother appropriate proceedings."There  has been a good deal of argument before us as to	 thetrue  effect of the decision in Gopal Das Mohta's case	(1).While  I recognise that the reason stated for the  decision,viz.,  that  Art.  32 is not  intended	for  relief  againstvoluntary  actions  of a person, comes very near  to  sayingthat  a	 person has waived his protection in  a	 given	casesince  whatever	 injury he may incur is due to his  own	 actrather	than  to  the  enforcement  of	an  unconstitutionalmeasure	 against him, I am unable to hold that the  decisionproceeded strictly on the doctrine of waiver; it is  perhapstrue  to say that some of the observations made therein	 areof a " Delphic nature to be translated into concreteness  bythe process of litigating elucidation" (to borrow the  wordsof Frankfurter, J., in Machinists v. Gonzales (2).  It seemsto  me	that the decision proceeded more upon the  scope  ofArt. 32 than upon the doctrine of waiver.  I am fortified inthis view by the circumstance that in a decision given	onlya  month earlier (see Behram Khurshed Pesikaka v. The  Stateof  Bombay  (3)) the same learned  Chief  Justice  expressedhimself strongly, though tentatively, against introducing inour  Constitution  the doctrine of waiver as  enunciated  bysome   American	  Judges   in	construing   the    AmericanConstitution, without a full discussion of the matter.	 Thereport of Gopal(1) [1955] 1 S.C.P. 773.       (2) (1958) 356 U.S. 617,619(3) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613 653,654.587Das  Mohta's case (1) does not contain any reference to	 thedoctrine  of  waiver,  and it is  obvious  that	 no  ,fullerdiscussion  of the doctrine took place in that case.  It  isnot, therefore, reasonable to hold that the effect of  GopalDas Mohta's case is to uphold the doctrine of waiver.	BabuRao's case (2) merely followed Gopal Das Mohta (1) and	gaveno separate reasons.  Laxmanappa Jamkhandi's case (3)  dealtwith an order under s. 8(2) of the Act and said at p. 772:-"  From	 the  facts  stated  above  it	is  plain  that	 theproceedings  taken  under  the	impugned  Act  XXX  of	1947concluded   so	far  as	 the  Investigation  Commission	  isconcerned  in  September, 1952, more than two  years  beforethis  petition was presented in this Court.  The  assessmentorders under the Income-tax Act itself were made against thepetitioner in November, 1953.  In these circumstances we areof  the opinion that -he is entitled to no relief under	 theprovisions  of Article 32 of the Constitution.	It was	heldby  this Court in Ramjilal v. Income-tax Officer,  Mohindar-garh,  [1951]  S.C.R. 127, that as there is a  special	pro.vision in Article 265 of the Constitution, that no tax shallbe  levied or collected except by authority of	law,  clause(1)  of Article 31 must therefore be regarded  as  concernedwith   deprivation  of	property  otherwise  than   by	 theimposition  or collection of tax, and inasmuch as the  rightconferred  by Art. 265 is not a right conferred by Part	 IIIof the Constitution, it could not be enforced under  Article32.   In  view of this decision it has to be held  that	 thepetition  under	 Article  32  is  not  maintainable  in	 thesituation  that	 has arisen and that even otherwise  in	 thepeculiar circumstances that have arisen it would not be justand proper to direct the issue of any of the writs the issueof which is discretionary with this Court."Here,  again,  there  is no reference  to  the	doctrine  ofwaiver,	 and the case was decided on the ambit and scope  ofArt. 32 of the Constitution.I  would hold, therefore, that the decisions of	 this  Courtrelied on by the learned Attorney General do(1) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 773.	(2) [1954] 26 I.T.R. 725.(3)[1955] 1 S.C.R.769.588not help him in establishing waiver.  Let me now examine thecircumstances  on which the learned Attorney General  foundshis  plea of waiver.  Indeed, it is true that  the  assesseesubmitted to the discriminatory procedure applied to him  bythe  Commission; he also asked for a settlement under  whichhe  agreed  to pay 75% of his alleged tax  liability  and  asmall amount of penalty; he made some payment in instalmentseven  after Muthia's decision in December, 1955.   Do  thesecircumstances amount to waiver ? It is to be remembered thatin  1953-1954 when the discriminatory procedure of  the	 Actwas  applied to him and the report against him was  made  bythe  Commission	 on  which  the	 settlement  is	 based,	 theassessee  did not know, nor had it been declared by a  courtof competent jurisdiction that s. 5(1) of the Act was  ultravires.	In his application for a settlement, he said clearlyin  paragraph  3 that the Commission announced - it  as	 itsview  that  the income, profits and gains that	had  escapedassessment  in the hands of the assessee was  Rs.  4,47,915.The  assessee also knew that under the Act this finding	 wasfinal  and binding on him.  If in these	 circumstances,	 theassessee made an application for settlement, can it be	saidthat  it is a voluntary or intentional relinquishment  of  aknown right ? I venture to think not.  It has been said that'  waiver' is a troublesome term in the law.  The  generallyaccepted connotation is that to constitute ' waiver',  theremust  be an intentional relinquishment of a known  right  orthe  voluntary	relinquishment	or abandonment	of  a  knownexisting  legal	 right,	 or  conduct  such  as	warrants  aninference  of  the  relinquishment  of	a  known  right	  orprivilege.   Waiver differs from estoppel in the sense	thatit  is contractual and is an agreement to release or not  toassert a right; estoppel is a rule of evidence. (See  DawsonBank  Limited v. Nippon Menkwa Kabushiki Kaisha) (1).	Whatis  the known legal right which the  assessee  intentionallyrelinquished or agreed to release in 1953-1954 ? He did	 notknow then that any part of the Act was invalid, and I  doubtif in(1) (1935) L.R.62 I.A.100,108.		    589the  circumstances of this case, a plea of 'waiver'  can  befounded on the maxim of 'ignorance of law is no excuse'.   Ido not think that the maxim 'ignorance of law is no  excuse'can  be	 carried to the extent of saying that  every  personmust be presumed to know that a piece of legislation enactedby  a legislature of competent jurisdiction must be held  tobe-invalid, in case it prescribes a differential  treatment,and he must, therefore, refuse to submit to it or incur	 theperil  of the bar of waiver being raised against him.  I  donot think that such pre-science is a necessary corollary  ofthe maxim.  On the contrary, the presumption, if any,  whichoperated at the relevant time was the presumption that a lawpassed by a competent legislature is valid, unless  declaredunconstitutional  by  a	 court	of  competent  jurisdiction.Furthermore, I do not think that any inference of waiver canbe retrospectively drawn from the instalments paid in  1956-57, particularly when the question of refund of the  amountsalready paid is no longer a live issue before us.  It would,I  think, be going too far to hold that	 every	unsuspectingsubmission  to a law, subsequently declared to	be  invalid,must  give  rise  to  a plea  of  waiver:  this	 would	makeconstitutional	rights	depend	for their  vitality  on	 theaccident of a timely challenge and render them illusory to avery large extent.I  hold,  therefore,  that  the	 necessary  foundation	 forsustaining  the	 plea of waiver has not been  laid  in	thiscase,  and the onus being on the respondents, the plea	mustfail.In view of my finding that the necessary foundation on factsfor sustaining the plea of waiver has not been laid in	thiscase, it becomes unnecessary to decide, in the abstract, thefurther	 question  if  a  right guaranteed  by	any  of	 theprovisions in Part III of the Constitution can be waived  atall.   I  am of the view -that this Court should  indeed  berigorous  in avoiding to pronounce on constitutional  issueswhere  a  reason.  able	 alternative  exists;  for  we	haveconsistently  followed	the two principles (a)	that  "	 theCourt  will not anticipate a question of constitutional	 lawin590advance	 of  the  necessity  of deciding  it  "	 (Weaver  onConstitutional	Law,  p. 69) and (b) " the  Court  will	 notformulate  a  rule  of constitutional law  broader  than  isrequired by the precise facts to which it is to be applied "(ibid, p. 69).My Lord the Chief Justice and my learned brother Kapur,	 J.,have  however expressed the view that the fundamental  rightguaranteed  under  Art.	 14 cannot  be	waived;	 my  learnedbrethren,  Bhagwati and Subba Rao, JJ., have  expressed	 theview  that none of the fundamental rights guaranteed by	 theConstitution can be waived.I  greatly  regret  to have to say that I  have	 come  to  aconclusion  different  from  theirs  with  regard  to	thisquestion,  and	as they have thought fit  to  express  theirviews  on  it  proceed now to explain why I have come  to  aconclusion  different from those of my learned	brethren  onthis question.This  question	was mooted, though not	fully  answered,  inBehram Khurshed Pesikaka's case (1).  Venkatarama Aiyar, J.,expressed  his	views  at pages 638 to 643  of	the  report.Mahajan, C. J., with whom Mukherjea, Vivian Bose and  GhulamHasan,	JJ., concurred, expressed his views at pages 651  to655 of the report, and my Lord the Chief Justice as Das, J.,reserved  his  opinion	on the	question.   The	 view  whichVenkatarama   Aiyar,   J.,  expressed  was  this:   if	 theconstitutional	provision which has been  infringed  affectsthe competence of the legislature which passed the law,	 thelaw is a nullity; as for example, when a State enacts a	 lawwhich is within the exclusive competence of the Union; when,however,  a law is within the competence of the	 legislaturewhich passed it and the unconstitutionality arises by reasonof  its repugnancy to provisions enacted for the benefit  ofindividuals,   it   is	not  a	nullity,   but	 is   merelyunenforceable; such unconstitutionality can be waived and inthat  case  the law becomes enforceable.  He  said  that  inAmerica	 this principle was well settled and he referred  toCooley on Constitutional Limitations, Volume 1, pages 368 to371 ; Willis on Constitutional Law at(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613, 653, 654.591pages 524, 531, 542 and 558; Rottschaefer on  ConstitutionalLaw  at	 pages 28 and 29-30.  He then  referred	 to  certainAmerican decisions in support of his views and then said:-" The position must be the same under our Constitution	whena law contravenes a prescription intended for the benefit ofindividuals............	 It  is	 open to  any  person  whoserights	have  been infringed to waive it and when  there  iswaiver,	 there is no legal impediment to the enforcement  ofthe law.  It will be otherwise if the statute was a nullity;in  which  case it can neither be waived nor  enforced.	  Ifthen  the  law is merely unenforceable and can	take  effectwhen waived, it cannot be treated as non est and as effacedout of the statute book."The  contrary view expressed by Mahajan, C. J., can be	bestexplained in his own words:"  We  think  that  it is not  a  correct  proposition	thatconstitutional	provisions in Part III of  our	Constitutionmerely	operate	 as a check on the exercise  of	 legislativepower.	 It is axiomatic that when the lawmaking power of  aState  is restricted by a written fundamental law, then	 anylaw  enacted and opposed to fundamental law is in excess  ofthe legislative authority and is thus a nullity.  Both thesedeclarations  of unconstitutionality go to the root  of	 thepower itself and there is no real distinction between  them.They represent but two aspects of want of legislative power.The  legislative  power	 of the	 Parliament  and  the  Statelegislatures  as  conferred  by Arts. 245  and	246  of	 theConstitution  stands  curtailed by  the	 fundamental  rightschapter of the Constitution.  "His  Lordship then referred to Art. 13 of  the	Constitutionand said that it was a clear and unequivocal mandate of	 thefundamental  law prohibiting the State from making any	lawswhich came into conflict with Part III of the  Constitution.His Lordship added:" In our opinion the doctrine of, waiver enunciated by	someAmerican  Judges  in construing	 the  American	Constitutioncannot	be introduced in our Constitution without  a  fullerdiscussion of the matter......... Without finally expressingan opinion on this question, we592are  not for the moment convinced that this theory  has	 anyrelevancy in construing the fundamental rights conferred  byPart  III  of the Constitution.	 We think  that	 the  rightsdescribed as fundamental rights are a necessary	 consequenceof the declaration in the ,preamble that the people of Indiahave solemnly resolved to constitute India into a  sovereigndemocratic  republic  and  to secure  to  all  its  citizensjustice, social, economic and political; liberty of thought,expression,  belief, faith and worship; equality  of  statusand of opportunity.  These fundamental rights have not	beenput  in	 the  Constitution merely  for	individual  benefit,though	ultimately they come into operation  in	 consideringindividual rights.  They have been put there as a matter  ofpublic	policy	and  the doctrine of  waiver  can,  have  noapplication to provisions of law which have been enacted  asa matter of constitutional policy."It would appear that the two main reasons which Mahajan,  C.J.,  gave  in  support of the views expressed  by  him	werethese.	 Firstly, he held that the effect of Art. 13 of	 theConstitution was to prohibit the State from making any	lawswhich  came into conflict with Part III of the	Constitutionand  he	 recognised  no such distinction  as  was  drawn  byVenkatarama Aiyar, J., between absence of legislative  power(that	is,  incompetence  of  the  legislature)  and	non-observance of provisions which operate merely as a check  onthe exercise of legislative power.  He thought that  absenceof  legislative	 power and check on the exercise  of  legis-lative power were both aspects of want of legislative power.Secondly, he referred to the preamble and the scheme of PartIII  of	 the Constitution in support of his  view  that	 thedoctrine  of  waiver  did not  apply.	I  shall  take-thesereasons in the order in which I have stated them.First,	as  to the effect of Art. 13  of  the  Constitution.Article 13 is in two parts: the first part deals with "	 alllaws  in force in the territory of India immediately  beforethe commencement of this Constitution "'and says that so faras  such laws are inconsistent with the provisions  of	PartIII, they shall to the extent of suchinconsistency be void; the second part deals with laws	madeafter  the commencement of the Constitution and says that  "the  State  shall  not make any law  which  takes.  away  orabridges  the  rights  conferred  by  Part  III	 "  of	 theConstitution and any law made in contravention of cl. (2) ofArt.  13 shall to the extent of	 the contravention  be void.It seems clear to me that the Article itself recognises	 thedistinction between absence of legislative power which	willmake the law made by an incompetent legislature wholly void,and  exercise  of legislative power in	contravention  of  arestriction or check on such power, which will make the	 lawvoid  to the extent of the inconsistency  or  contravention.The use, of the words " to the extent of the inconsistency "and  "	to  the extent of the  contravention  "	 indubitablypoints	to such a distinction, and indeed this	was  pointedout in Bhikaji Narain Dhakras v. The State of Madhya Pradesh(1).   This  was  an unanimous decision of  this  Court	 andseveral earlier decisions including the decision in  KesavanMadhava Menon's case (2), on which Mahajan, C. J., placed somuch  reliance,	 were considered therein.  The	decision  inBehram	Khurshed Pesikaka (3)was also considered,  and	thenthe following observations were made with regard to Art.  13of the Constitution at p. 598-" Article 13(1) by reason of its language cannot be read  ashaving obliterated the entire operation of the	inconsistentlaw or having wiped it out altogether from the statute book.Such   law  existed  for  all  past  transactions  and	 forenforcement  of	 rights and liabilities accrued	 before	 thedate  of the Constitution, as was held in  Keshavan  MadhavaMenon's	 case.	 The law continued in force even  after	 thecommencement  of the Constitution, with respect	 to  personswho  were not citizens and could not claim  the	 fundamentalright.	In short, Art. 13(1) had the effect of nullifying orrendering  the	existing law which had	become	inconsistentwith  Art.  19(1)(g)  read with el. (6)	 as  it	 then  stoodineffectual, nugatory and devoid of any legal(1) [1055] 2 S.C.R. 589-	   (2) [1951] S.C.R. 228.(3)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613,653. 654.75594force  or binding effect only in respect of the exercise  ofthe   fundamental  right  on  or  after	 the  date  of	 thecommencement	of    the    Constitution............	 Alllaws,existing  or  future, which are inconsistent  with	 theprovisions  of	Part  III of our Constitution  are,  by	 theexpress provision of Art. 13, rendered void I to the  extentof  such  inconsistency'.  Such laws were not dead  for	 allpurposes."The  aforesaid view expressed in Bhikaji Narain's  case	 (1)was accepted in many later decisions including the  decisionin  Muthia's  case  (2).  The  same  distinction  was  againreferred  to in another unanimous decision of this Court  inThe State of Bombay v. R.M.D. Chamarbaugwala (3) where at p.885 it was observed:The  Court of Appeal has rightly pointed out that  when	 thevalidity  of an Act is called in question, the	first  thingfor  the court to do is to examine whether the Act is a	 lawwith   respect	to  a  topic  assigned	to  the	  particularLegislature  which enacted it. if it is, then the  court  isnext  to consider whether, in the case of an Act  passed  bythe  Legislature of a Province now a State),  its  operationextends beyond the boundaries of the Province or the  State,for under the provisions conferring legislative powers on itsuch Legislature can only make a law for its territories  orany  part thereof and its laws cannot, in the absence  of  aterritorial nexus, have any extra territorial operation.  Ifthe  impugned law satisfies both these tests,  then  finallythe court has to ascertain if there is anything in any otherpart  of  the Constitution which places ~any fetter  on	 thelegislative  powers of such Legislature.  The  impugned	 lawhas to pass all these three test."Therefore,  the mere use of the word ~(6 void " in  Art.  13does not necessarily militate against the application of thedoctrine of waiver in respect of the provisions contained inPart   III   of	 our  Constitution.   Under   the   AmericanConstitution   also,   a  law  made  in	  violation   of   aconstitutional guarantee is struck down, because under	Art.VI of that Constitution, " the Constitution and the laws  ofthe United States which(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 589.	(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.(3)  [1957]  S.C.R. 874.595shall  be made in -pursuance thereof......... shall  be	 thesupreme law of the land." I am unable, therefore, to  acceptthe view that Art. 13 shows that the doctrine of waiver	 cannever be applied in respect of the provisions in Part III ofthe Constitution.Let  me now go to the second reason. Is there any  thing  inthe  preamble  and  the scheme	of  our	 Constitution,	withparticular  reference  to  Part III,  which  will  make	 thedoctrine of waiver inapplicable ? Let me first place the twopreambles side by side:     Premple to our		Premple to the American      Constitution.		   Constitution,1787.  "We the people of India     "We the people of the Unitedhaving solemny resolved to     States, in order to form aconstitute India into a so-    more perfect Union,establishvereign democratic republic    justice,insure domestic tra-and to secure to all its ci-   nquillity,provide for thetizens:justice,social,ecc-     common defence,promote thenomic and political; liber-    general welfare,and securety of though,expression,       the blessing of liberty tobelief,faith and worship;      ourselves and our posterityequality of status and of      do ordain and establishopportunity;and to promote     this Constitution for theamong them all fraternity      United State of America."assuring the dignity of theindividual and the unity ofthe nation;in our Constitu-ent Assemply this twenty-sixth day of November,1949do hereby adopt,enact andgive to ourselves this Co-nstitution."596American  Constitution	were : (a) to form  a  more  perfectUnion;	(b)  to establish justice; (c)	to  insure  domestictranquillity;  (d)  to promote general welfare; and  (e)  tosecure	the blessings of liberty.  In our Constitution,	 theemphasis  is  on  the Welfare  State-on	  Justice,  Liberty,Equality and Fraternity.  But the question before us is	 thelimited	 question  of  the application of  the	doctrine  ofwaiver.	 I do not find any. thing in the two preambles whichwill  make  the	 doctrine applicable in	 one  case  and	 notapplicable in the other.It  is necessary to refer here to one important	 distinctionbetween	 the  two  Constitutions.   Speaking  broadly,	 theAmerican  Constitution	of  1787, except  for  defining	 theenumerated powers of the Federal Government and limiting thepowers	of  the	 States, was an outline	 of  government	 andnothing	 more.	 Its  provisions  were	written	 in  generallanguage  and  did  not	 provide  minute  specifications  ofOrganisation   or   power.    It   contemplated	  subsequentlegislation  and interpretation for carrying the  provisionsinto  effect.  In other words, it was early recognised	thatthe   Constitution  was	 not  self-executing.	The   IndianConstitution  is  more	detailed, and in  Part	III  of	 theConstitution  are  provisions which not	 merely	 define	 therights	but  also state to what extent they are	 subject  torestrictions  in the interests of general welfare, etc.	  Inother words, there is an attempt at adjustment of individualrights	with social good, and in that sense the	 limitationsor  restrictions are also defined.  But I do not think	thatthis distinction has any particular bearing on the  questionat issue before us.  The rights as also the restrictions arejusticiable,  and an interpretation of the rights given	 andof   the  restrictions	imposed,  by  courts  of   competentjurisdiction is contemplated.Indeed,	 I recognise that there is a  constitutional  policybehind	 the   provisions  enacted  in	Part  III   of	 theConstitution.  In a, sense, there is a legislative policy inall  statutory	enactments.   In  my  opinion,	the  crucialquestion  is  not  whether  there  is  a  constitutional  orlegislative  policy behind a particular provision,  but	 thequestion is-is the provision meant		    597primarily  for the benefit of individuals or is it  for	 thebenefit	 of  the general public ? That	distinction  has,  Ithink, been recognised in more than one decision.  Take, forexample,  an ordinary statutory enactment like s. 80 of	 theCode  of  Civil Procedure which says that no suit  shall  beinstituted  against  the  Government  or  against  a  publicofficer in respect of any act purporting to be done by	suchpublic officer in his official capacity until the expirationof two months next after a notice in writing has been given,etc.  There is undoubtedly a reason of public policy  behindthis  provision,  but  it is open to  the  party  for  whosebenefit the vision has been made to waive notice and  indeedthe  party may be estopped by his conduct from pleading	 thewant  of  notice.  As the Privy Council pointed out  in	 AL.AR.   Villavar	Chettiar v. Government of  the	Province  ofMadras	 (1),	there  is  no  inconsistency   between	 thepropositions that the provisions of a section are  mandatoryand  must  be  enforced by the court and that  they  may  bewaived by the authority for whose benefit they are provided.The question then is-is there anything in the statute  whichmilitates against the application of the doctrine of  waiverto  such  right, subject to the safeguards  and	 precautionsnecessary for the application of the doctrine, provided	 theright is for the benefit of individuals ?I  am  conscious that rights which the	Constitution  itselfcharacterises as fundamental must be treated as such and  itwill  be wrong to whittle them down.  But are  we  whittlingdown  fundamental  rights when we say that the	question  ofwaiver	of  fundamental	 rights cannot be  answered  in	 theabstract-by a general affirmative or a general negative; thequestion  must always depend on (a) the nature of the  rightguaranteed and (b) the foundation on the basis of which	 theplea  of waiver is raised.  It is to be remembered that	 therights	guaranteed by Part III of the Constitution  are	 notconfined  to  citizens	alone.	 Some  of  the	rights	 areguaranteed to non-citizens also.  Moreover, they are not allrights	 relating   to	justice,   liberty,   equality	 andfraternity; some of the provisions define the rights(A)  (1947) L.R. 74 I.A. 223, 228.698while others indicate the restrictions or checks subject  towhich the rights are granted.  Article 33, for example, doesnot  give any right to any person; on the contrary it  givespower  to Parliament to modify the rights conferred by	PartIII in their application to persons.  Article 34 lays down aconferred by Part III while in any area.  It is not,  there-fore,  quite correct to say that all the provisions in	PartIII  grant  fun	 amental  rights,  though  the	heading	  is'Fundamental Rights'.There is, I think, a three-fold classification: (1) a  rightgranted	 by  an ordinary statutory enactment;  (2)  a  rightgranted by. the Constitution; and (3) a right guaranteed  byPart  III of the Constitution.	With regard to	an  ordinarystatutory  right  there is, I think, no difficulty.   It  iswell  recognised  that a statutory right which	is  for	 thebenefit	 of  an individual can in  proper  circumstances  bewaived by the party for whose benefit the provision has beenmade.	With  regard to a constitutional right,	 it  may  bepointed	 out  that  there  are	several	 provisions  in	 ourConstitution  which do not occur in Part III, but which	 yetrelate	to  certain rights; take, for  example,	 the  rightsrelating  to the Services under the Union and the States  inPart XIV.  I do not think that it can be seriously contendedthat  a right which is granted to a Government	servant	 forhis benefit cannot be waived by him, provided no question ofjurisdiction is involved.  I may refer in this connection tothe provisions in Part XIII which relate to trade,  commerceand  intercourse  within  the  territory  of  India.   Theseprovisions   also   impose  certain  restrictions   on	 thelegislative  powers  of	 the Union and of  the	States	withregard	to trade and commerce.	As these provisions are	 forthe benefit of the general public and not for any particularindividual, they can not be waived, even though they do	 notfind place in Part III of the Constitution.  Therefore,	 thecrucial	 question is not whether the rights or	restrictionsoccur in one part or other of the Constitution.	 The crucialquestion  is  the nature of the right given: is it  for	 thebenefit of individuals or is it for the general public?599That,  in  my opinion, is the true test.  I may	 here  statethat  the source of the right-contractual or statutory	--isnot  the  determining  factor.	The doctrine  of  waiver  isgrounded  on  the  principle  that  a  right,  statutory  orotherwise, which is for the benefit of an individual can  bewaived	by  him.  I am aware that a right which is  for	 thebenefit	 of the general public must in its actual  operationrelate to particular individuals, in the same way as a rightfor the benefit of individuals will in its actual  operationarise  in connection with individual A or individual B.	 Thetest  is  not  whether in its operation	 it  relates  to  anindividual.   The test is -for whose benefit the  right	 hasbeen primarily granted for the benefit of the general publicor for individuals ?Let me now apply this test to some of the provisions in PartIII  of	 the  Constitution.   These  provisions	 have	beenclassified under different heads: (1) right to equality, (2)right to freedom, (3) right against exploitation, (4)  rightto freedom of religion, (5) cultural and educational rights,(6)  right  to	property and  (7)  right  to  constitutionalremedies.   There can be no doubt that some of these  rightsare  for  the  benefit of the  general	public.	  Take,	 forexample,  Art. 23 which prohibits traffic in  human  beings,etc  ; so also Art. 24 'which says that no child  below	 theage  of 14 shall be employed to work in any factory or	mineor engaged in any other hazardous employment.  I do not wishto  multiply  examples and it is sufficient  to	 state	thatseveral of these rights are rights which are meant primarilyfor  the  benefit  of  the general public  and	not  for  anindividual.   But can we say the same thing in	-respect  ofall  the  rights ? Let us take Art. 31, which says  that  noperson	shall be deprived of his property save by  authorityof  law and that no property shall be compulsorily  acquiredor  requisitioned  save	 for a public purpose  and  save  byauthority of law which provides for compensation, etc.	Takea case where a man's property is acquired under a law  whichdoes  not  fix	the amount of compensation  or	specify	 theprinciples on which or the manner in which the	compensationis to be determined and given.	The man whose600property  is taken may raise no objection to the  taking  ofhis property under such law.  Indeed, he may expressly agreeto Government taking his land for a public purpose under thelaw  in	 question,  though  it	does  not  comply  with	 therequirements  as to compensation.  Can such a man after	 twoor  three  years  change his mind and say that	the  law  isinvalid	 and  his land on which a school or a  hospital	 mayhave  been built in the meantime should be restored to	him,because	 he could not waive his fundamental right ?   In  myopinion,  if  we express the view in the  abstract  that  nofundamental  right  can ever be waived, many  startling	 andunforeseen  results  may  follow.   Take  another   example.Suppose	 a man obtains a permit or a licence for  running  amotor vehicle or an excise shop.  Having enjoyed the benefitof  the permit for several years, is it open to him  to	 saywhen action is proposed to be taken against him to terminatethe licence, that the law under which the permit was grantedto  him was not constitutionally valid ? Having derived	 allthe  benefit from the permit granted to him, is it  open  tohim  to	 say  that the very Act under  which  a	 permit	 wasgranted	 to  him  is  not valid in  law	 ?  Such  and  otherstartling results will follow if we decide in the  abstract,by a general negative, that a fundamental right can never bewaived.	 Take Art. 32, which is a right to a  constitutionalremedy,	 namely,  the  right to move the  Supreme  Court  byappropriate  proceedings for the enforcement of	 the  rightsconferred  by Part III.	 It is now well settled	 by  severaldecisions  of  this court that the right under	Art.  32  isitself a fundamental right.  Suppose a person exercises thatright and initiates appropriate proceedings for	 enforcementof  a  fundamental right' Later he thinks better of  it	 andwithdraws his application.  Still later he changes his mind.Can he then say that he could not waive his right under Art.32  and the order passed on his application  for  withdrawalhad  no legal validity ? We may take still another  example.Under  Art.  30(1)  of	the  Constitution,  all	 minorities,whether	 based	on religion or language, have the  right  toestablish and administer educational institutions of601their  choice.	 Suppose, there is  a  minority	 educationalinstitution  and  the minority has the right  to  administerthat institution, but they want grant from Government.	 Theminority  may  have  to	 surrender  part  of  its  right  ofadministration	in  order to get Government  aid.   Can	 theminority  waive	 its  right?   Such  a	question  arose	 forconsideration  in  the	advisory opinion which	we  gave  inconnection with the Kerala Education Bill and-, so far as  Ihave  been able to understand, the effect of our opinion  isthat  the  minority  can  surrender part  of  its  right  ofadministration of a school of its own choice in order to getaid  from Government.  If we now hold that the minority	 cannever  surrender its right, then the result will be that  itwill never be able to ask for Government aid.I  do  not  see	 any  such  vital  distinction	between	 theprovisions  of	the American Constitution and those  of	 ourConstitution  as  would lead me to the conclusion  that	 thedoctrine  of  waiver applies in	 respect  of  constitutionalrights guaranteed by the American Constitution but will	 notapply  in  respect of fundamental rights guaranteed  by	 theIndian Constitution.  Speaking generally, the prohibition inPart  III  is against the State from taking  any  action  inviolation of a fundamental right.  The word 'State' in	thatPart includes the Government and Parliament of India as alsothe  Government	 and Legislature of each of the	 States	 andalso all local or other authorities within the territory  ofIndia or under the control of the Government of India.	 TheAmerican  Constitution also says the same thing	 in  effect.By Art.	 VI it states that the Constitution and the laws  ofthe  United States which shall be made in pursuance  thereofshall be the supreme law of the land.  It is well settled inAmerica	 that the first ten amendments to the original	Con-stitution  were substantially contemporaneous and should  beconstrued  in pari materia.  In many of the  amendments	 thephraseology  used  is  similar to  the	phraseology  of	 theprovisions of Part III of our Constitution.The position under the American Constitution is76602well settled and a succinct statement of that position	willbe  found in Rottschaefer on Constitutional Law, pp.  28-29.The learned author has summarised the position thus:"  There are certain constitutional provisions that  may  bewaived	by  the	 person	 for  whose  protection	 they	wereintended.   A  person who has waived that  protection  in  agiven instance may not thereafter. raise the issue that his,constitutional rights have been infringed in that  instance,since  whatever	 injury he may incur is due to his  own	 actrather	than  to  the  enforcement  of	an  unconstitutionalmeasure against him.A  person  who	would  otherwise  be  entitled	to  raise  aconstitutional issue is sometimes denied that right  becausehe  is	estopped to do so.  The factor	usually	 present  inthese  cases  is  conduct  inconsistent	 with  file  presentassertion  of that right, or conduct of such character	thatit  would  be  unjust  to others  to  permit  him  to  avoidliability  on  constitutional  grounds.	 A  person  may	 notquestion  the  constitutionality of the	 very  provision  onwhich  he bases the right claimed to be	 infringed  thereby,nor  of	 a  provision  that  is	 an  integral  part  in	 itsestablishment  or definition.  The acceptance of  a  benefitunder one provision of an Act does not ordinarily preclude aperson	from  asserting'  the  invalidity  of  another	 andseverable  provision  thereof, but there are  exceptions  tothis  rule.   The.' promoters of a public  improvement	havebeen  denied' the right to contest the validity of the	ruleapportioning its cost over the benefited lands, and a personwho  has received the benefits of a statute may not  there-'after  assert its invalidity to defeat the claims of  those,against	 whom  it has been enforced in his  own	 favour.   Astate is estopped to claim that its own statute deprives it.of  its	 property  without due process of  law	but  it	 is-permitted to assert that its own statute invades rights thatits  constitution  confers  upon  it.	Prior	inconsistentconduct	 will not,however preclude a person  from  assertingthe, invalidity of an act if under all the circumstances itsassertion involves no603unfairness or injustice to those against whom it is raised."The   learned  Attorney	 General  placed  reliance  on	 thefollowing decisions: (1) Pierce v. Somerset Railway (1); (2)Wall v. Parrot Silver and Copper Company (2); (3) Pierce OilCorporation v. Phoenix Refining Company (3) ; (4) Shepard v.Barron(4)  ; (5) United States V. Murdock(5); (6) Patton  v.United States (6) ; and (7) Adams v. United States (7).	 Theposition  in America is so well settled that I think  it  isunnecessary to examine the aforesaid decisions in detail.  Ineed  only refer to the observations of Frankfurter, J.,  inWilliam A. Adam's case (supra).	 The observations were	madein  connection with a case where a trial was held without  ajury  at the request of the accused person himself in  spiteof the guarantee of Amendment VI. The observations were-"  What was contrived as protections for the accused  shouldnot be turned into fetters.  To assert as an absolute that alayman,	 no  matter how wise or experienced he	may  be,  isincompetent to choose between judge and jury as the tribunalfor  determining  his guilt or innocence, simply  because  alawyer	has not advised him on the choice, is  to  dogmatizebeyond the bounds of learning or experience."I have not been able to find any real reason on the basis ofwhich the decisions given above with regard to the  AmericanConstitution can be held to be inapplicable to similar casesarising under the Indian Constitution.Two subsidiary reasons have been given for holding that	 theposition under the Indian Constitution is different.  One isthat  ours  is	a  nascent  democracy  and,  therefore,	 thedoctrine  of  waiver should not apply.	With respect,  I  amunable to concur in this view.	I do not think that we shallbe  advancing  the  cause  of  democracy  by  converting   afundamental  right into a fetter or using it as a means	 forgetting out of an(1)  (1898) 171 U.S. 641.(2)  (1917) 244.U.S.407.(3)  (1922) 259.U.S.125.(4)  (1904) 194.U.S.553.(5)  (1931) 284.U.S.141.(6)  (1930) 281.U.S.276.(7)  (1942) 317.U.S.269.604agreement freely entered into by the parties.  I  appreciatethat  waiver  is not to be light heartedly  applied,  and  Iagree that it must be applied with the fullest rigour of allnecessary safeguards and cautions.  What I seriously  objectto  is	a statement in the abstract and "in  absolute  termsthat  in  no circumstances can a right given by any  of	 theprovisions  in	Part  III of  the  Constitution	 be  waived.Another	 point	taken  is that the provisions  in  Part	 IIIembody what are called	natural rights' and such rights havebeen  retained	by the people and can  never  be  interferedwith.	I  am unable to acquiesce in this.   The  expressionnatural	 rights'  is in itself somewhat	 vague.	  Sometimes,rights	have  been divided into	 natural rights'  and  civilrights',  and  natural rights' have been stated to be  thosewhich are necessarily inherent or innate and which come fromthe very elementary laws of nature whereas civil rights	 arethose  which arise from the needs of civil as  distinguishedfrom  barbaric communities.  I am unable, however, to  agreethat any such distinction is apparent from the provisions inPart  III  of our Constitution: all the rights	referred  totherein appear to be created by the Constitution.  I do	 notthink  that Locke's doctrine of natural rights',  which	 wasperhaps	 the  authority	 for  the  American  Declaration  ofIndependence,  played  any  part in  the  enactment  of	 theprovisions  of Part III of our Constitution.   The  doctrinewhich  has long since ceased to receive general	 acceptance,has  been thus explained by E. W. Paterson (see Natural	 Lawand  Natural  Rights, Southern Methodist  University  Press,Dallas, 1955, p. 61):" The theory of natural rights, for which we are indebted tothe seventeenth-century English philosopher, John Locke,  isessentially different from the theories of natural law	justdiscussed   in	 that	it   lacked   the   two	   importantcharacteristics	  above	 -mentioned:  the  concept   of	  animmutable   physical  order  and  the  concept	 of   divinereason............ He begins with the purpose of  justifyingthe  existence of a government with coercive  powers.	Whatinconveniences would arise if there were no government?	 Menwould live in a " stage of nature'; to avoid confusion	withthe		    605political  state I shall call this a  condition of  nature'.In such a condition man would be free to work, to enjoy	 thefruits	of his labour, and to barter with others;  he  wouldalso  be free to enforce the law of nature  (whose  preceptsLocke did not define) against every other man.	Since  Lockewas an optimist about human nature he thought men would	 getalong  pretty  well  in this  lawless  condition.   Yet	 thecondition  of  nature  is  for	Locke  a  fiction  like	 theassumption  of	a frictionless machine	in  mechanics.	 Thechief disadvantages that men in this condition would  sufferwere,  he thought, the absence of an established  law,,	 theabsence	 of  a	known and  impartial  magistrate  to  settledisputes, the absence of a. power sufficient to execute	 andenforce	 the  judgment of the magistrate.   Moved  by  theseinconveniences,	 men would enter into a social compact	witheach  other whereby each would transfer to a  third  person,the government, such rights over his person and property  asthe   government  must	have  in  order	 to   remove   theseinconveniences.	   All	 other	 rights,   privileges,	 andimmunities he reserved, as a grantor of land conveys the feesimple	to  his son and reserves a life estate	to  himself.These reserved rights were  natural' rights because they hadoriginated  in	the  condition of nature  and  survived	 thesocial compact."There  are, in my opinion, clear indications in Part III  ofthe  Constitution  itself  that the doctrine  of  '  naturalrights'	 had  played  no  part in  the	formulation  of	 theprovisions  therein.   Take Arts. 33, 34 and 35	 which	giveParliament power to modify the rights conferred by Part III.If they were natural rights, the Constitution could not havegiven  power to Parliament to modify them.  Therefore, I  amof  the view that the doctrine of 'natural  rights'  affordsnothing but a foundation of shifting sand for building up  athesis	that  the doctrine of waiver does not apply  to	 therights guaranteed in Part III of our Constitution.The true position as I conceive it is this: where a right orprivilege  guaranteed  by  the	Constitution  rests  in	 theindividual  and	 is primarily intended for his	benefit	 anddoes not impinge on the right of others, it606can  be waived provided such waiver is not forbidden by	 lawand does not contravene public. policy or public morals.In  the	 case  before  us, I have  held	 that  there  is  nofoundation   on	 facts	to  sustain  the  plea	of   waiver.Therefore,  I would allow the appeal with costs.  The  orderof the Commissioner of Income-tax, Delhi, dated January	 29,1958, must be set aside and all proceedings now pending	 forimplementation	of the order of the Union  Government  datedJuly 5, 1954, must be quashed.SUBBA  RAO,  J.-I  have had the advantage  of  perusing	 thejudgments  of  my  Lord the Chief  Justice  and	 my  learnedbrother, S. K. Das, J. I agree with their conclusion, but  Iwould  prefer to express my opinion separately in regard  tothe question of the applicability of the doctrine of  waiverto the fundamental rights.This  case  raises a most serious  and	important  question,viz.,  whether	the  doctrine  of  waiver  operates  on	 thefundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, a questionnot  confined to the immediate purpose of  this	 litigation,but  to	 the public in general.	 The question  is  bound  toarise  frequently,  and	 the  varying  observations  alreadyexpressed  by  the learned Judges of this Court	 would	lendscope	for  conflicting  decisions  involving	parties	  inunnecessary litigation and avoidable hardship.	The questionwas  directly  raised and fully argued before  us.   In	 thecircumstances,	I  cannot share the opinion  of	 my  learnedbrother,  S.  K.  Das, J., that this Court  should  avoid  adecision  on this question and leave it to be decided  in  amore appropriate case.The  facts  have  been fully stated by	my  Lord  the  ChiefJustice in his judgment and I need not restate them.The learned Attorney General contended that in the  AmericanLaw the principle of waiver was applied to rights created bythe Constitution except in cases where the protection of therights	was based upon public policy and that, by  the	sameanalogy,  if no public policy was involved, even  in  India,the person		    607affected by the infringement of the fundamental rights couldwaive  the constitutional protection guaranteed to him.	  Itwas  said that in the present case the appellant waived	 hisfundamental  right under Art. 14 of the Constitution as	 theright  was  only in respect of his liability to tax  and  hecould  legitimately waive it.  To, appreciate this  argumentit would be convenient at the outset to notice the  AmericanLaw  on	 the subject.  Certain rights, which  are  sometimesdescribed as the Bill of Rights, have been introduced by theAmendment; to the Constitution of America.  They declare therights of the people of America in respect of the freedom ofreligion speech, press, assemblage and from illegal seizurs.They  guarantee trial by jury in certain criminal and  civilmatters.   They give protection against	 self-incrimination.The Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United Statesprescribes  that  no  person shall  be	deprived  of  life.,liberty	 or property without due process of law;  nor  shallprivate	 property  be  taken for  public  use  without	justcompensation.  The Fourteenth Amendment of the	Constitutionintroduces  the rule of due process as a protection  againstthe  State  action.  The said amendments are intended  as  aprotection  to citizens against the action of the Union	 andthe  States.  Though the rights so declared are general	 andwide in their terms, the Supreme Court of America, by a longcourse	of -judicial, interpretation, having regard  to	 thesocial	conditions'  in that country, has given	 content  tothose  rights and imposed limitations thereon in an  attemptto reconcile individual rights with social good, by evolvingcounterbalancing   doctrines   of  police   power,   eminentdomain,,.  and	such  others.	During	the  course  of	 theevolution.  of	the  law, attempts were made  to  apply	 thedoctrine of waiver to the provisions of the Constitution  ofAmerica.   American Courts applied the doctrine	 with  greatcaution	 and  in  applying  the	 same,	laid  down  definiteprinciples.The  said  principles  were  culled  out  from	the  variousdecisions and clearly summarized in the authoritative, text-books on the Constitution of America under different heads:608WILLIS ON 'CONSTITUTIONAL LAW':1. Self-incrimination:The  privilege	against self-incrimination'  like-any  otherprivilege, is one which may be waived.2.   Double jeopardy:Double	jeopardy is a privilege and may be waived  expresslyor impliedly.3.   Immunity against unreasonable searches and seizures:The  immunity is one which may be waived and by consent	 onecan make a search and seizure reasonable.4. Jury Trial:The United States Supreme Court......... held that neither ajurisdictional	question nor the interest of the  State	 wasinvolved,  but only the privilege and right of the  accused,and that these were subject to waiver in accordance with theusual rules.5.   Due  Process  of Law as a matter  of  jurisdiction:In  order to delimit personal liberty by  exercising  socialcontrol,  the branch of the government undertaking to do  somust  have jurisdiction.  If it does not have  jurisdiction,it  is taking personal liberty (life, liberty  or  property)without	 due  process  of law.	To this rule  there  are  noexceptions.  It cannot be waived.'COOLEY'S CONSTITUTIONAL LIMITATIONS':Where  a  constitutional  provision  is	 designed  for,	 theprotection solely of the property rights of the. citizen, itis competent for him to waive the protection, and to consentto  such  action as would be invalid if	 taken	against	 hiswill.In  criminal  cases  the  doctrine  that  a   constitutionalprivilege  may	be  waived must be true to  a  very  limitedextent	only.	A  party may consent  to  waive	 rights	 of.property, but the trial and punishment for. public  offencesare  not  within the provinces of individual  con.  sent  oragreement.CORPUS JURIS SECUNDUM:It  has	 been  stated  supra (p. 1050,	note  32)  that	 thedoctrine of waiver extends to rights and privileges		    609of any character, and since the word ' waiver' covers  everyconceivable right, it is the general rule that a person	 maywaive  any  matter  which  affects  his	 property,  and	 anyalienable  right  or privilege of which he is the  owner  orwhich  belongs	to him or to which he is  legally  entitled,whether	 secured  by  contract,	 conferred  by	statute,  orguaranteed   by	 constitution,	provided  such	rights	 andprivileges  rest  in the individual, are intended  'for	 hissole  benefit, do not infringe on the rights of others,	 andfurther provided the waiver Of the right or privilege is notforbidden by law, and does not contravene public policy, andthe  principle	is recognized that everyone has a  right  towaive,	and agree to waive, the advantage of a law  or	rulemade solely for the benefit and protection of the individualin  his	 private capacity, if it can be dispensed  with	 andrelinquished  without  infringing on any  public  right	 andwithout detriment to the community at large.........As  a general rule, rights relating to procedure and  remedyare  subject to waiver, but if a right is so fundamental  inits  nature  as	 to  be regarded by  the  state	 as  vitallyintegrated  in	immemorially established  processes  of	 theadministration of justice, it cannot be waived by anyone.The  cases  cited  at  the  Bar	 illustrate  the   aforesaidprinciples.   The  doctrine was applied to  the	 obligationsunder  a  contract  in Pierce v. Somerset  Railway  (1);  todeprivation of property without due process of law in PierceOil  Corporation v. Phoenix Refining Company(2) and  Shepardv.  Barron (3) to trial by jury in Patton v.  United  States(4)	and   Adams  v.	 United	 States(5);  and   to	self-incrimination in United States v. Murdock (6).	It is  true,as the learned counsel for the appellant contended, that  insome  of  the aforesaid decisions, observations are  in	 thenature	of  obiter, but they clearly indicate the  trend  ofjudicial opinion in America.(1)  (1898) 43 L. Ed- 316; 171 U.S. 641.(2)  (1922) 66 L.Ed. 855; 259 U.S. 125.(3)  (1904) 48 L. Ed. 1115 ; 194 U. S. 553.(4)  (1930) 74 L. Ed. 854; 281 U.S. 276.(5)  (1942) 87 L. Ed. 268.(6)  (1931) 76 L. Ed 210; 284 U.S. 141.77610The American Law on the subject may be summarized thus:	 Thedoctrine of waiver can be invoked when the Constitutional orStatutory  guarantee of a right is not conceived  in  publicinterest or when it does not affect the jurisdiction of	 theauthority  infringing the said right.  But if the  privilegeconferred or the right created by the statute is solely	 forthe benefit of the individual, he can waive it.	 But even inthose  cases  the Courts invariably administered  a  cautionthat  having regard to the nature of the right some  precau-tionary	 and stringent conditions should be  applied  beforethe doctrine is invoked or applied.This leads me to the question whether the fundamental rightsenshrined  in  the  Indian  Constitution  pertain  to	thatcategory  of  rights  which  could be  waived.	 To  put  itdifferently, whether the Constitutional guarantee in  regardto   the   fundamental	rights	restricts   or	 ousts	 thejurisdiction   of   the	 relevant  authorities	 under	 theConstitution  to make laws in derogation of the said  rightsor  whether  the  said rights are for  the  benefit  of	 thegeneral public.	 At the outset I would like to sound a	noteof  warning.   While it is true that the  judgments  of	 theSupreme Court of the United States are of a great assistanceto  this  Court	 in elucidating and  solving  the  difficultproblems  that	arise  from  time to  time,  it	 is  equallynecessary  to keep in mind the fact that the  decisions	 aregiven  in  the context of a different social,  economic	 andpolitical  set	up,  and  therefore  great  care  should  bebestowed  in  applying those decisions to cases	 arising  inIndia	with  different	 social,  economic   and   politicalconditions.   While  the principles evolved by	the  SupremeCourt of the United States of America may in certain circum-stances	 be accepted, their application to similar facts  inIndia  may  not	 always lead to the  same  results.   It  istherefore   necessary	to  consider  the  nature   of	 thefundamental rights incorporated in the Indian  Constitution,the  conditions	 of  the people for whose  benefit  and	 thepurpose	 for which they were created, and the effect of	 thelaws made in violation of those rights.	 The Constitution ofIndia  in  its preamble promises to secure to  all  citizensjustice, social, economic and611political; liberty of thought, expression, belief, faith andworship;  equality  of	status and of  opportunity;  and  topromote	 among them all fraternity assuring the	 dignity  ofthe  individual	 and the unity of the nation.	One  of	 thethings	the  Constitution did to achieve the  object  is  toincorporate  the  fundamental rights  in  the  Constitution.They  are  divided  into  seven	 categories:  (i)  right  toequality-Arts.	14 to 18; (ii) right to freedom-Arts. 19  to22;  (iii) right against exploitation-Arts. 23 and 24;	(iv)right  to freedom of religion Arts. 25 to 28 ; (v)  culturaland  educational  rightsArts.  29  and	30;  (vi)  right  toproperty-Arts.	31,  31	 A  and	 31B;  and  (vii)  right  toConstitutional	remediesArts. 32 to 35.	  Patanjali  Sastri,J., as he then was, pointed out, in Gopalan v. The, State ofMadras(1), that fundamental rights contained in Part III  ofthe  Constitution are really rights that are still  reservedto  the people after the delegation of rights by the  peopleto the institutions of Government both at the Centre and  inthe States created by the Constitution.	 Article 13 reads :-(1) All laws in force in the territory of India	 immediatelybefore	the commencement of this Constitution, in so far  asthey  are inconsistent with the pro. visions of	 this  Part,shall, to the extent of such inconsistency, be void.(2)  The  State shall not make any law which takes away	 or,abridges the rights conferred by this Part and any law	madein contravention of this clause, shall, to the extent of thecontravention, be void."This  Article,	in  clear and unambiguous  terms,  not	onlydeclares  that all laws in fore before the  commencement  ofthe   Constitution  and	 made  thereafter  taking  away	  orabridging the said rights would be void to the extent of thecontravention  but also prohibits the State from making	 anylaw  taking away or abridging the said rights.	Part III  istherefore  enacted  for the benefit of all the	citizens  ofIndia,	in an attempt to preserve to them their	 fundamentalrights	against infringement by the institutions created  bythe Constitution; for, without that safeguard, the objects(1) [1950] S. C. R. 88.612adumbrated in the Constitution could not be-achieve,-].	 Forthe  same purpose, the said chapter imposes a limitation  onthe  power of the State to make laws in violation  of  thoserights.	 The entire part, in my view, has been introduced inpublic	interest, and it is not proper that the	 fundamentalrights	 created  under	 the  various  Articles	 should	  bedissected to ascertain whether any or which part of them  isconceived  in  public  interest and which part	of  them  isconceived  for	individual benefit.  Part III  reflects	 theattempt	 of the Constitution makers to reconcile  individualfreedom	 with State Control.  While in America this  processof reconciliation was allowed to be evolved by the course ofjudicial  decisions,  in India, the fundamental	 rights	 andtheir  limitations  are	 crystallized and  embodied  in	 theConstitution  itself; while in America a freehand was  givento the judiciary not only to evolve the content of the rightbut  also its limitations, in the Indian Constitution  thereis  not	 much scope for such a process.	  The  Court  cannottherefore import any further limitations on the	 fundamentalrights	other  than  those  contained in  Part	III  by	 anydoctrine,  such	 as  "	waiver "  or  otherwise.   I  would,therefore, hold that the fundamental rights incorporated  inPart III of the Constitution cannot be waived.It  is said. that such an inflexible rule would, in  certaincases,	defeat	the very object for  which  the	 fundamentalrights	are  created.	I  have	 carefully  scrutinized	 theArticles in Part III of the Constitution of India, and	theydo  not,  in my view, disclose any such	 anomaly  or  createunnecessary  hardship to' the people for whose	benefit	 therights	are  created.	Article,  14  embodies	the   famousprinciple of equality before the law and equal protection ofthe  laws,  and	 Arts. 15 to 18 and  Art.  29(2)  relate  toparticular   applications  of  the  rule.    The   principleunderlying   these  Articles  is  the  mainspring   of	 ourdemocratic  form  of  government and it	 guarantees  to	 itscitizens equal protection in respect of both substantive andprocedural laws.  If the doctrine of waiver is engrafted  tothe said fundamental principles, it will mean that a citizencan  agree  to	be discriminated.'  When  one  realizes	 theunequal		    613positions  occupied  by the State and the  private  citizen,particularly  in  India where illiteracy is rampant,  it  iseasy  to visualize that in a conflict between the State	 and-a  citizen,  the latter may, by fear of force	or  hope  ofpreferment,  give up his right.	 It is said that in  such  acase coercion or influence can be established in a Court  oflaw,  but in practice it will be well nigh impossible to  doso.  The same reasoning will apply to Arts. 15 and 16.	Art.17  illustrates	 the evil repercussion of  the	doctrine  ofwaiver	in  its	 impact on  the	 fundamental  rights.	ThatArticle in express terms forbids untouchability;  obviously,a   person  cannot  ask	 the  State  to	 treat	him  as	  anuntouchable.  Article 19 reads:-"(1) All citizens shall have the right-(a)  to freedom of speech and expression;(b)  to assemble peaceably and without arms;(c)  to form associations or unions;(d)  to move freely throughout the territory ofIndia ;(e)to  reside  and settle in any part of  the  territory  ofIndia;(f)  to acquire, hold and dispose of property ; and(g)  to	 practice  any	profession,  or	 to  carry  on	 anyoccupation, trade or business."The right to freedom is the essential attribute of a citizenunder democratic form of government.  The freedoms mentionedin Art. 19 are subject to certain restrictions mentioned  incls.  (2)  to (6) of that Article.  So far as  the  freedomsnarrated  in sub-cls. (a) to (g) of Cl. (1) of Art.  19	 areconcerned,  I  cannot  visualise  any  contingency  where  acitizen	 would	be -in a worse position than he	 was  if  hecould  not  exercise  the right of  waiver.   In  regard  tofreedom	 to  acquire,  hold  and  dispose  of  property,   aplausible  argument may be advanced, namely, that a  citizenshould have a right to waive his right to acquire, hold	 anddispose	 of property ; for, otherwise he might be  compelledto  acquire  and hold his property, even if he	intended  togive it up  There is an underlying fallacy in this argument.The Article does not compel a citizen to acquire, hold and614dispose of property just as it does not compel a per. son todo  any	 of the acts covered by the other freedoms.   If  hedoes  not  want to reside in any part of  the  territory  ofIndia or to make a speech or to practise any profession,  heis  at liberty not to do any of ,,these things.	 So  too,  aperson	may not acquire the property at all or practise	 anyprofession  but if he seeks to acquire property or  practiseany  profession,  he cannot be told that he has	 waived	 hisright  at an earlier stage to acquire property	or  practisethe  profession.  A freedom to do a particular act  involvesthe  freedom  not  to do that act.  There  is  an  essentialdistinction  between  the non-exercise of a  right  and	 theexercise  of a right subject to the doctrine of waiver.	  Sounderstood, even in the case of the right covered by sub-cl.(f) of cl. (1), there cannot be any occasion when a  citizenwould  be worse off than when he had no	 fundamental  rightsunder  the  Article.  The preservation of the  rights  underArt.  19 without any further engrafting of  any	 limitationsthan  those  already  imposed  under  the  Constitution,  iscertainly  in the interest of the public ; for,	 the  rightsare  essential for the development of human  personality  inits diverse aspects.  Some comment is made in regard to	 theright covered by el. (3) of Art. 20, and it is asked that ifa  person has no liberty to waive the protection under	thatclause, he could not give evidence even if he wanted to giveit  in his own interest.  This argument ignores the  contentof  the	 right under cl. (3) of Art.  20.   The	 fundamentalright of a person is only that he should not be compelled tobe a witness against himself.  It would not prevent him fromgiving evidence voluntarily.  Under Art. 21, no person shallbe deprived of his life or personal liberty except accordingto procedure established by law and Art. 22 gives protectionagainst	 arrest	 and detention in certain cases.  I  do	 notthink  that  any situation can be conceived  when  a  personcould  waive  this right to his	 advantage.   Article  23(1)prohibits traffic in human beings and forced labour.  It  isnot  suggested that a person can waive	this  Constitutionalprotection.   So  too,	the  right  under  Art.	 24,   whichprohibits employment615of children in factories, cannot be waived.  That apart,  sofar as this Article is concerned, no question of waiver	 canarise as a child cannot obviously waive his right under thisArticle.   Article 25 gives guarantee for religious  libertysubject	 to  certain  restrictions  contained  therein.	  Itdeclares  that all persons are	equally entitled  to freedomof conscience and the right freely to profess, practise	 andpropagate  religion.  This right is certainly  conceived  inthe  public interest and cannot be waived.  So too,  freedomto manage religious affairs, freedom as to payment Of  taxesfor  promotion of any particular religion and freedom as  toattendance at religious instruction or religious worship  incertain	 educational  institutions  are	 all  conceived	  toenforce the religious neutrality of the State and it  cannotbe  suggested  that they are not in  public  interest.	 Thecultural and educational rights of the minorities and  theirright  to establish and administer educational	institutionsof  their choice are given for the protection of the  rightsof the minorities and it cannot be said that they are not inpublic interest.  Article 31, which prohibits the State fromdepriving a person of his property save by authority of	 lawor  to acquire any property without paying compensation,  isintended to protect the properties of persons from arbitraryactions	 of  the State.	 This Article is  conceived  in	 theinterest  of the public and a person cannot say that he	 canbe deprived of his property without authority of law or thathis land can be acquired without compensation.It  is	suggested  that	 if  a	person,	 after	waiving	 hisfundamental  right  to property and allowing  the  State  toincur  heavy expenditure in improving the same, turns  roundand claims to recover the said property, the State would  beput to irreparable injury.  Firstly, no such occasion shouldarise,	as the State is not expected to take  its  citizens'property or deprive them of their property otherwise than byauthority  of  law.  Secondly, if the owner  of	 a  propertyintends to give it to the State, the State can always insistupon  conveying to it the said property in the manner  knownto law.	 Thirdly, other remedies may be open to the616recover	  compensation	or  damages  for  the	improvementsbonafide  made	or the loss incurred, having regard  to	 thecircumstances  of a particular case.  These  considerations,in my view, are of no relevance in considering the  questionof waiver in the context of fundamental rights.	 By  expressprovisions of the Constitution, the State is prohibited frommaking	any  law  which takes away or  abridges	 the  rightsconferred  by  Part III of the Constitution.  The  State  isnot,  therefore, expected to enforce any right	contrary  tothe Constitutional prohibition on the ground that the  partywaived his fundamental right.  If this prohibition is  bornein  mind,  no occasion can arise when the'  State  would  beprejudiced.   The prejudice, if any, to the State  would  becaused not by the non-application of the doctrine of  waiverbut  by	 its  own  action  contrary  to	 the  Constitutionalprohibition imposed on it.It  is	then said that if the doctrine of waiver  is  to  beexcluded, a person can apply to the Supreme Court under Art.32  of	the Constitution for the  relief  provided  therein,withdraw  the petition, get the order of the  Supreme  Courtdismissing it and then apply over again for issue of a	writin respect of the same right.  The apprehension so expressedis  more  imaginary  than real; for, it	 has  no  foundationeither in fact or in law.  When an application is dismissed,for  whatever  reason  it may be-whether  on  merits  or  onadmission-, the order of the Court becomes final and it	 canbe reopened only in the manner prescribed by law.  There  isno  scope for the application of the doctrine of  waiver  insuch a cage.Articles  33  and  34 contain  some  of	 the  Constitutionallimitations  on the application and the enforcement  of	 thefundamental  rights.  The former.  Article confers power  onParliament to modify the rights conferred by Part III of theConstitution  in their application to facts and	 the  latterenables	 it to impose restrictions on the  rights  conferredby' that Part, while martial law is in force in any area.These  two  Articles, therefore, do not	 create	 fundamentalrights, but impose limitations thereon and I		    617cannot	appreciate the argument that their presence in	PartIII  either  derogates from the content of  the	 fundamentalrights	declared therein or sustains the doctrine of  waiverin  its application to the said rights.	 Article 35  conferson the Parliament, the power to legislate for giving  effectto  the	 provisions  of Part III  to  the  exclusion  of theLegislatures  of  the, States.	This Article also  does	 notcreate	a  fundamental right, but provides a  machinery	 forenforcing that right.A  startling  result, it is suggested, would flow  from	 therejection  of the doctrine of waiver and the  suggestion  issought to be illustrated by the following example : A persontakes a permit for several years from the State for  runninga  motor  vehicle  or an excise shop.	Having	enjoyed	 thebenefit for several years and when action is proposed to  betaken against him to terminate the licence, he contends thatthe  law under which the permit was granted to him  offendedhis  fundamental rights and therefore  constitutionally	 notvalid.	 It is asked whether it would be open to him to	 saythat the very Act under which the permit was granted to	 himwas  not valid in law.	To my mind, this  illustration	doesnot  give  rise to any anomaly.	 Either a person can  run  amotor  vehicle	or an excise shop with	licence	 or  withoutlicence.  On the basis the law is valid, a licence is  takenand the motor vehicle is run under that licence and if	thatlaw  offends  his fundamental right and therefore  void,  hecontinues to ran the business without licence, as no licenceis  required under a valid law.	 The aforesaid	illustrationdoes not, there. fore, give rise to any anomaly and even  ifit does, it does not affect the legal position.I  have	 considered the various provisions relating  to	 thefundamental  rights with a view to discover if there is	 anyjustification  for the comment that without the aid  of	 thedoctrine  of  waiver a citizen,	 in  certain  circumstances,would  be  in a worse position than that he would be  if  heexercised his right.  I have shown that there is none.	 Noris  there any basis for the suggestion that the State  wouldirreparably  suffer  under certain contingencies;  for,	 anyresulting hardship would be its78618own  making and could be avoided if it acted  in  accordancewith law.A  large  majority  of our  people  are	 economically  poor,educationally backward and politically not yet conscious  oftheir  rights.	 Individually  or  even	 collectively,	theycannot	be  pitted  against  the  State	 organizations	 andinstitutions,  nor  can they meet them on equal	 terms.	  Insuch circumstances, it is the duty of this Court to  protecttheir  rights  against themselves.  I  have,  therefore,  nohesitation in holding that the fundamental rights created bythe Constitution are transcendental in nature, conceived andenacted	 in  national  and public  interest,  and  thereforecannot be waived.That apart, I would go further and hold that as section 5(1)of the Act XXX of 1947 was declared to be void by this Courtin M. Ct.  Muthiah v. The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras(1),  the  appellant  can. not, by the	application  of	 thedoctrine of waiver, validate the enquiry made under the saidAct.  It is suggested that there is a distinction between  acase   where  the  enactment  is  beyond   the	 legislativecompetence  Of	the Legislature which made it and  the	casewhere the law is unconstitutional on the ground of existenceof  a  constitutional limitation, that while in	 the  formercase the law is null and void, in the latter case the law isunenforceable  and  may	 be revived by the  removal  of	 thelimitation  by	an amendment of the Constitution.   On	thisdistinction an argument is sought to be built to the  effectthat  as in the present case s. 5(1) of the Act XXX of	1947was  declared to be invalid only on the ground that  it	 washit  by Art. 14 of the Constitution, the law must be  deemedto  be on the statute book and therefore the  appellant	 waswithin	his right to waive his constitutional guarantee.   Iam unable to appreciate this, argument.The  scope of Art. 13(1) of the Constitution was  consideredby  this  Court in Keshavan Madhava Menon v.  The  state  ofBombay	(2).  This Court by a majority held that Art.  13(1)of the Constitution does not make(1) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.(2) [1951] S.C.R. 228.619existing  laws which are inconsistent with  the	 fundamentalrights,	  void	ab  initio,  but  only	renders	 such	lawsunenforceable  and void with respect to the exercise of	 thefundamental rights on and after the date of commencement  ofthe  Constitution.  Mahajan, C. J., who was a party to	thatdecision,  explained  the word ,void' in Art. 13(1)  of	 theConstitution in Behram Khurshed Pesikaka v. State of  Bombay(1).  He observed at page 652 thus:-" It is axiomatic that when the law-making power of a  Stateis  restricted	by  written fundamental law,  then  any	 lawenacted	 and opposed to the fundamental law is in excess  ofthe legislative authority and is thus a nullity.  Both thesedeclarations  of unconstitutionality go to the root  of	 thepower itself and there is no real distinction between  them.They represent but two aspects of want of legislative power.The   legislative   power  of  Parliament  and	 the   StateLegislatures  as  conferred  by Arts. 245  and	246  of	 theConstitution  stands  curtailed by  the	 fundamental  rightsChapter of the Constitution."This decision in clear and unambiguous terms lays down	thatthere  cannot  be  any	distinction  on	 principle   betweenConstitutional	incompetency and Constitutional	 limitation.In either case, the Act is void, though in the latter  case,the pre-constitutional rights and liabilities arising  underthe  statute  are saved.  This Court again  dealt  with	 themeaning	 of  the word  void' in Bhikaji	 Narain	 Dhakras  v.State of Madhya Pradesh (2).  There the question was whetheran Act 'Which was declared void on the ground of  inconsist-ency with the Constitution, can be revived by any subsequentamendment  to the Constitution removing	 the  inconsistency.This  Court answered the question in the affirmative.	Das,acting C.; J., observed at page 598 thus:-"  As  explained in Keshavan Madhava Menon's case,  the	 lawbecame void not in toto or for all purposes or for all timesor  for	 all  persons  but  only  to  the  extent  of	suchinconsistency  that  is	 to,say, to the	 extent,  it  becameinconsistent with the provisions of Part(1) [1955] 1 S. C. R. 613.(2) [1955] 2 S. C. R. 589.620III which conferred the fundamental rights on the  citizens.It did not become void independently of the existence of therights guaranteed by Part III...... In Short, Article  13(1)had  the effect of nullifying or rendering the existing	 lawwhich  had become inconsistent with Art. 19(1)(g) read	withclause (6) as it then stood ineffectual, nugatory and devoidof any legal force or binding effect only with the  exerciseof  the	 fundamental  right on and after  the  date  of	 thecommencement of the Constitution..................... It  isonly as against the citizens that they remained in a dormantor moribund condition.	In our judgment, after the amendmentof  clause  (6)	 of  Art. 19 on the  18th  June,  1951,	 theimpugned  Act  ceased  to  be  unconstitutional	 and  becamerevivified  and	 enforceable  against citizens	as  well  asagainst non-citizens."This  judgment	does not say anything  different  from	thatexpressed  in Keshavan Madhava Menon's case (1) nor does  itdissent from the view expressed by Mahajan, C. J., in BehramKhurshed's  case  (2).	 The  problem  that  confronted	 thelearned	 Judges was a different one and they resolved it  byapplying  the  doctrine of "eclipse'.  The  legal  position,vis-a-vis, the law declared to be void either on the  groundof  legislative incompetence or for the reason of  constitu-tional	limitation,  as	 stated in  the	 earlier  decisions,-remains  unshaken  by	this  decision.	  So  long  as	 theinconsistency  remains the law continues to be void, at	 anyrate  vis-a-vis the fundamental rights of a person.  We	 arenot concerned in this case with the doctrine of revival; forthe inconsistency of s. 5(1) of the Act with the fundamentalright under Art. 14 of the Constitution has not been removedby any amendment of the Constitution.  So long as it is	 notdone,  the  said  section  is void  and	 cannot	 affect	 thefundamental  rights of the citizens.  In M. Ct.	 Muthiah  v.The Commissioner of Income-tax, Madras (3), it was  declaredthat s. 5(1) of Act XXX of 1947 was unconstitutional on	 theground	that  it  infringed the fundamental  rights  of	 thecitizens under Art. 14 of the Constitution.(1) [1951] S.C.R. 228.		  (2) [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.(3)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1247.621Under Art. 141 of the Constitution, the law declared by	 theSupreme	 Court	is binding on all the Courts in	 India.	  Itfollows that the Income-tax Commissioner had no jurisdictionto continue the proceedings against the appellant under	 ActXXX  of 1947.  If the Commissioner had no jurisdiction,	 theappellant could not by waiving his right confer jurisdictionon him.The  scope of the doctrine of waiver was considered by	thisCourt  in  Behram Khurshed's case(1).  There  a	 person	 wasprosecuted  for	 an  offence under s. 66(b)  of	 the  BombayProhibition Act and he was sentenced to one month's rigorousimprisonment.  One of the questions raised there was whethers. 13(b) of the Bombay Prohibition Act, having been declaredto be void under Art. 13(1) of the Constitution in so far asit  affected the consumption or use of liquid  medicinal  ortoilet	preparation containing alcohol, the prosecution	 wasmaintainable  for infringement of that section.	  The  Courtheld  that  in India once the law has been  struck  down  asunconstitutional  by  the Supreme Court, no  notice  can  betaken  of it by any Court, because, after it is declared  asunconstitutional, it is no longer law and is null and  void.Even  so, it was contended that the accused had	 waived	 hisfundamental  right  and therefore he could not	sustain	 hisdefence.   Mahajan,  C. J., delivering the judgment  of	 themajority,  repelled  this  contention  with  the   followingobservations at page 653:-"  The	learned Attorney General when questioned  about	 thedoctrine  did  not seem to be very  enthusiastic  about	 it.Without	 finally expressing an opinion on this	question  weare  not for the moment convinced that this theory  has	 anyrelevancy in construing the fundamental rights conferred  byPart  III  of our Constitution.	 We think  that	 the  rightsdescribed as fundamental rights are a necessary	 consequenceof the declaration in the preamble that the people of  Indiahave solemnly resolved to constitute India into a  sovereigndemocratic  republic  and  to secure  to  all  its  citizensjustice,  social,  economic  and  political  ;	liberty	 ,ofthought, expression, belief, faith and worship;(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 613.622equality  of status and of opportunity.	  These	 fundamentalrights have not been put in the Constitution merely for	 theindividual   benefit  though  ultimately  they	 come	intooperation in considering individual rights.  They have	beenput  there as a matter of public policy and the doctrine  ofwaiver	can have no application to provisions of  law  whichhave  been  enacted as a matter	 of  Constitutional  policy.Reference  to  some of the articles,  inter  alia,  Articles15(1) 20, 21, makes the proposition quite plain.  A  citizencannot	get  discrimination by telling the  State  'You	 candiscriminate',	or get convicted by waiving  the  protectiongiven  under Articles 20 and 21."On  the	 question of waiver, Venkatarama Aiyar, J.,  in	 hisjudgment  before review, considered the	 American  decisionsand   was  inclined  to	 take  the  view  that	 under	 ourConstitution when a law contravenes the provisions  intendedfor  the benefit of the individual, it can be  waived.	 Butthe  learned  Judge made it clear in his judgment  that	 thequestion  of  waiver  had no bearing to any  issue  of	factarising for determination in that case but only for  showingthe nature of the right declared under Art. 19(1)(f) and theeffect in law of a statute contravening it.  Das, J., as  hethen was, in his dissenting judgment, did not state his viewon this question but expressly reserved it in the  followingwords:-" In coming to the conclusion that I have, I have in a largemeasure	 found	myself	in  agreement  with  the  views	  ofVenkatarama  Aiyar,  J.,  on  that part	 of  the  case.	  I,however, desire to guard myself against being understood  toagree  with the rest of the observations to be found in	 hisjudgment,   particularly   those  relating  to	 waiver	  of'unconstitutionality,  the fundamental rights being  a	merecheck  on  the	legislative  power  or	the  effect  of	 thedeclaration  under Art. 13(1) being  relatively	 void'.	  Onthose topics prefer to express no opinion on this occasion."I respectfully agree with the observations of Mahajan, C. J.For the aforesaid reasons,  hold that the doctrine of waiverhas  no application in the case of fundamental rights  underour Constitution.		    623		   ORDERThe  appeal  is	 allowed.   The	 order	of  the	 Income	 TaxCommissioner,  Delhi, dated January 29, 1958, is  set  asideand  all proceedings now pending for implementation  of	 theorder  of Union Government dated July 5, 1954, are  quashed.The appellant shall get costs of this appeal.