PETITIONER:EARNEST JOHN WHITE	Vs.RESPONDENT:MRS.  KATHLEEN OLIVE WHITE AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:10/03/1958BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BENCH:KAPUR, J.L.BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  441		  1958 SCR 1410ACT:Divorce-Adultery-Standard of Proof-Principle-Direct evidenceif  imperative-Finding of fact when can be interfered  with-Divorce Act (IV of 1869), ss. 14 and 7.HEADNOTE:The  appellant sued his wife for dissolution of marriage  onthe ground of her adultery.On  the	 evidence  the trial court found  that	it  was	 notpossible to hold that adultery had been committed, though itfound that one of the letters contained "a large  substratumof  truth".   The High Court in appeal	concurred  with	 thedecision.   On appeal to the Supreme Court it was  contendedfor  the appellant that the finding of the courts below	 wasvitiated  because  certain  pieces  of	evidence  had	beenmisread, and some others ignored.  As a matter of legitimateand  proper inference the Court should not have	 arrived  atany  other  conclusion,	 but that the  wife  was  guilty  ofadultery with respondent NO. 2. The evidence showed that thewife went to Patna and stayed in a hotel with respondent NO.2 under an assumed name, that they occupied the same room inthe  hotel, that the conduct of the respondent	indicated  aguilty	inclination,  and  that	 so  far  as  the  wife	 wasconcerned,  her	 conduct was entirely  consistent  with	 herguilt :Held,  that, the nature of the evidence adduced was such  aswould satisfy the requirements of s. 14 of the Divorce	Act,and  that the finding of the Courts below that an  inferenceof adultery could not be drawn therefrom must be set aside.Although it is not usual for the Supreme Court to interfere1411on  questions  of  fact, where, however,  the  courts  belowignore	or  misconstrue	 important  pieces  of	evidence  inarriving at their finding, and this Court is of the  opinionthat  no tribunal could have come to such a finding oil	 theevidence  taken	 as a whole, such finding was liable  to  beinterfered with by this Court.Held, further, that the words "satisfied on the evidence" ins. 14 Of the Divorce Act, 1869, imply that it is the duty ofthe  (Court to pronounce a decree only when it is  satisfiedthat the case lhas been proved beyond reasonable doubt as tothe commission of a matrimonial offence.The  evidence  must be clear and  satisfactory	beyond	merebalance	 of probabilities.  It is not neccessary and  rarelypossible, to prove the issue by any direct evidence.The rule laid down in Preston Jones v. Preston Jones, [1951]A.C. 391, lays down the principle that should be followed bytile courts under s. 7 Of the Divorce Act.State of Madras v. A. vaidanatha Iyer, A.I.R. 1958 S.C.	 61,Purvez	Ardeshir  Poonawala v. The State of Bombay, Cr.	  A.122   Of  1954,	 decided  on  December	20,  1957,   StephenSeneviratne  v.	 The  A.I.R.  1936  P.C.  289,	Mordaunt  v.Moncrieffe,  (1874) 30 649 and Gower v. Gower [1950] 1	All.E.R. 804, referred to.Loveden	 v.  Loveden, (1810) 161 F. R. 648 ; (1810)  2	Hag.Con. 1,3, referred to.Preston	 Jones	v. Preston Jones, [1951]  A.C.	391,  reliedupon.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil AppeAl No. 19 of 1956.Appeal from the judgment and decree dated July 21, 1954, of'the  Patna  High Court in Letters Patent Appeal	 No.  24  of1951,  arising out of the judgment and decree dated May	 15,1951,  of the said High Court in Matrimonial Suit No.  2  of1950.M.   C.	  Setalvad,  Attorney-General  for  India,   N.	  C.Chatterjee  and P. K. Chatterjee, for the  appellant.	Boththe Courts below have failed to draw the proper inference ofthe  commission of adultery, which should legitimately	havebeen drawn from the facts proved.  Both the Single Judge andthe  Appeal  Court failed to take  into	 consideration	somepieces	of  evidence and certain other	pieces	of  evidencewhich	were   equally	important  had	been   misread	 andmisconstrued  and  as  a matter	 of  legitimate	 and  properinference  the lower courts should not have arrived  at	 anyother 1791412conclusion  but that the wife was guilty of adultery and  insuch  case the interference with the finding of facts  belowby the Supreme Court will be called for.State  of Madras v. A. Vaidanatha Iyer, A. I. R. 1958 S.  C.61 and Stephen Seneviratne v. The King, A. I. R. 1936  P. C.289.N.C. Chatterjee continued.  The judgment of the High   Courtsuffers	 from  certain serious infirmities  and	 this  Courtshould	not act on the rigid principle that finding of	factshould not be interfered with in the final court of appeal.Sir William Scott's dictum in Loveden v. Loveden, (1810) 161E.  R. 648, as to " the guarded discretion of  a  reasonableand  just  man" does not mean there should  be	satisfactoryevidence  of the commission of a matrimonial offence.	LordMacDermott  has	 pointed  out in Preston  Jones	 v.  PrestonJones,	L. R. [1951] A.C. 391, that if a judge is  satisfiedbeyond	reasonable  doubt  as  to  the	commission  of	 thematrimonial  offence relied on by the petitioner  as  groundfor  divorce,  he  must surely	be  "satisfied"	 within	 themeaning	 of  the  enactment,  and no less  so  in  cases  ofadultery where the circumstances are such as to involve	 thepaternity of a child.  To succeed on an issue of adultery itis not necessary to prove the direct fact of, or even an actof  adultery in time and place ; for if it were so, in	manyfew  cases  would  that proof be attainable.   It  has	beenpointed out in a number of cases that rarely the parties aresurprised in a direct act of adultery and such evidence willhave to be disbelieved.	 Rydon on Divorce, 6th Edn., P. 115;Douglas v. Douglas, [1951] P. 85: [1950] 2 All E.R. 748.  Innearly	every  case the fact of adultery  is  inferred	fromcircumstances  which  lead  to it by  fair  inference  as  anecessary  conclusion.	 Unless	 it is so  held	 there	willabsolutely  be	no protection to marital rights.   Allen  v.Allen, [1894] p.248, approving Loveden v. Loveden.Counsel	 then cited Davis v. Davis, [1950] P. 125: [1950]  1All E. R. 40.  In that case Bucknill, L. J., and  Somervell,L.  J., held that when husband petitions for divorce on	 theground of wife's cruelty, it is1413unnecessary  to	 introduce any question of the	standard  ofproof  required	 of  a criminal	 charge.   Denning,  L.	 J.,emphasised  that  a suit for divorce is a civil	 and  not  acriminal  proceeding.	The same standard of proof  as	thatrequired in criminal cases is not needed.  The stringency ofproof required in a criminal court is not necessarily calledfor  in	 divorce  suit.	  Lord	Merriman's  dictum   quotingChurchman  v. Churchman, [1945] P. 44, that the same  strictproof  is required in the case of matrimonial offence as  isrequired  in connection with criminal offence has  been	 toowidely	expressed and should be read in the light  of  laterjudgments.Recent judgment of the Court of Appeal (Bucknill, L.   T.,and Denning, L. J.,) lays down the correct law in Gower	  v.Gower, [1950] 1 All E.R. 804, that the correct approach	 hasbeen  laid  down by Denning, L. J., who	 observed  that	 thecourt should not be irrevocably committed to the view that acharge	of adultery must, be regarded a criminal charge,  tobe proved beyond all reasonable doubt.	All that the statuterequires is that the court must be satisfied on the evidencethat  the case of the petitioner has been proved and  it  issubmitted  that Denning, L. J., has enunciated	the  correctprinciple  and	the statute lays down a	 standard  and	putsadultery  on  the  same footing	 as  cruelty,  desertion  orunsoundness of mind.N.   C. Chatterjee cited also Mordaunt v. Moncrieffe, (1874)30 L.T. 649.S. P. Varma, for the respondent.  The burden of proof is  onthe   person  alleging	adultery  and  there  is  always   apresumption  of innocence.  In any event on a  petition	 fordivorce	 some  strict proof is required of  adultery  as  isrequired in a criminal case before a person is found guilty.Ginesi	v.  Ginesi, [1948] P. 179: [1948] 1  All  E.R.	373.Applying  the  dictum  of  Lord	 Merriman  in  Churchman  v.Churchman,  [19451 P. 44, the trial court was not  satisfiedof  the	 guilt beyond all reasonable doubt.  It is  for	 thetrial  judge  to  decide an issue of fact ;  unless  he	 hasmisdirected himself his finding should not be disturbed.R.   Patnaik, for co-respondent No. 1. Submitted that1414the evidence in the case falls far short of the standard  ofproof required.1958.	March 10.  Tile Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbyKAPUR J.-This is an appeal with a certificate under s. 56 ofthe  Divorce Act (IV of 1869) (hereinafter called  the	Act)against	 a judgment and decree dated July 21, 1954,  of	 theHigh  Court  of Patna dismissing the  husband's	 suit.	 Thehusband who is the appellant sued his wife who is respondentNo.  I	for  dissolution of marriage on the  ground  of	 heradultery with two co-respondents now respondents Nos. 2	 and3.  The suit was tried in the High Court by Shearer J.,	 whodismissed  the suit and this decree was on appeal  confirmedby the Appeal Court.  The question as to the legality of thecertificate granted was raised but in the view that we	havetaken it is not necessary to decide this question.The husband was married to the wife at Kharagpur on February3,  1,943,  and	 there is no issue  of	the  marriage.	 Theparties thereafter resided at "Rose Villa" at Samastipur andrespondent  No.	 2  was	 residing  with	 his  mother  in  anadjoining  house called " Sunny Nook".	The husband  allegedvarious acts of adultery between the wife and the other	 tworespondents.   As  regards allegations of' adultery  of	 thewife with respondent No. 3, the High Court has found againstthe  husband  and these findings have  not  been  challengedbefore us.  The allegations of adultery between the wife andrespondent  No.	 2  were also held not	proved.	  In  appealbefore	us the husband has confined his case to the acts  ofadultery  alleged  to  have been committed  at	the  CentralHotel, Patna where the wife and respondent No. 2 are allegedto have resided together between July 25, 1950 and July	 28,1950,  under  the  assumed names of  Mr.  and  Mrs.  CharlesChaplin.   The	wife pleaded that she came to  Patna  solelywith  the object of having her tooth extracted and  returnedto Samastipur the same day and that she had to come alone asin  spite  of her request the husband refused  to  accompanyher.1415Respondent  No.	 2 pleaded that he came to  Patna  with	 hismother	"  in connection with seeking employment  under	 theSuperintendent Of Police, Anti-Smuggling Department, also inconnection  with mother's tooth trouble and for	 house	holdshopping  ". He also pleaded that he stayed with his  motherin the same room under his own name and not under an assumedname.The trial judge found that the wife and respondent No. 2 andthe latter's mother stayed in two rooms in the Hotel Nos.  9& 10 from July 25, 1950 to July 28, 1950.  He accepted	the,testimony  of the Manager of the Hotel, Cardoza P. W. 3	 andalso of the sweeper Kira Ram P. W. 4. He found that the Wifeand  respondent No. 2 were seen by Kira Rain in room No.  10and  also that the party, i.e., the wife, respondent  No.  2and the latter's mother were served morning tea in one	roomwhich  they  had together but he did not infer any  acts  ofadultery  from	this  conduct.	The  document  Ex.  8  datedNovember 22, 1950, but actually written earlier was held  bythe  learned Judge to contain " a large substratum of  truth".  The	 Appeal Court (S.  K. Das C. J.	 and  Ramaswami	 J.)agreed	with the findings of the trial judge but  they	alsowere  unable  to  draw the inference of	 the  commission  ofadultery  front	 the evidence.	In appeal it  was  contendedthat the findings of the courts below. were vitiated becausecertain	 pieces of' evidence had been misread, some  ignoredand as a matter of legitimate and proper inference the courtshould not have arrived at any other conclusion but that thewife was guilty of adultery with respondent No. 2.This  Court will not ordinarily interfere with	findings  offact given by the trial judge and the Appeal Court but if ingiving	the  findings the Courts  ignore  certain  importantpieces	of evidence and other pieces of evidence  which	 areequally	 important  are	 shown	to  have  been	misread	 andmisconstrued and this Court comes to the conclusion that  onthe evidence taken as a whole no tribunal could properly  asa  matter of legitimate inference arrive at  the  conclusionthat it has, interference by this Court will be called	for.(See1416State  of  Madras  v. A.  Vaidanatha  Iyer  Purvez  ArdeshirPoonawala v. The State of Bombay(2); Stephen Seneviratne  v.The King (3).The  Central Hotel, Patna, which is alleged to be the  sceneof  adultery by the wife bad only 10 rooms, which  were	 allsingle, but whenever necessary additional beds were put	 in.At the relevant time M. C. Cardoza P.	W. 3 was employed asits Manager, Kira Ram P. W. 4 as a sweeper, Abdul Aziz P. W.5  and Usman Mian P. W. 6 as bearers.  Kira  Ram  identifiedthe  wife  as  the lady who had stayed	at  the	 hotel	withrespondent No. 2 but the other hotel servants although	theywere  shown the photograph of the wife and also saw  her  incourt were unable to recognize her as the person who  stayedwith  respondent  No. 2. But they did identify	him  as	 thegentleman who had stayed in the hotel along with two ladies.Examined by counsel Kira Ram stated:Q.   "	(Pointing  out to the wife) I ask you, do  you	knowthis lady?  A. Yes.  Q. Did they ever visit your hotel?	  A.Yes.  Q. How long ago?	A. About 9 or 10 months ago.  Q. Howlong  did they stay there?  A. About 4 or 5 days.   Q.	Whatroom did they occupy?  A. Room No. 10 ".He was unable to say as to the number of beds in room No. 10nor is there any other evidence in regard to this.  He	alsostated :Q.   "	During	their  stay for these 4 or 5  days  in	yourhotel, did you go to clean their bath room ? A. Yes.  Q. Didyou  see  them	in that room whenever you  went	 ?  A.	Yes,whenever I used to go to sweep the room I found Memsaheb andSaheb there." (Questioned by the Court the witness said:Q.   "Can  you	remember was there any other  Memsaheb	withthese two?  A. There was another Memsaheb who lived in	roomNo. 9.Q.   What was she like young Memsaheb or what ?A.   She was not very old, but she was old."(1)  A. T. R. 1958 S.C. 61, 64.(2)  Cr.  A. I 22 Of 1954, decided on December 20, 1957.(3)  A.I.R. 1936 P.C. 289, 299.1417And this obviously refers to respondent No. 2's mother.	 Theevidence  of  Kira  Ram therefore shows that  the  wife	 andrespondent  No.	 2  occupied  one room,	 room  No.  10.	  Noquestion was put to this witness as to his hours of duty norwas the manager Cardoza asked anything about it but  anotherwitness	 Abdul	Aziz bearer P.W. 5, was asked  about  it  asfollows:Q.   " What are the hours of work of the sweeper ?A.   He comes at 7 a.m. and he leaves in the evening.He	  sometimesgoes away at about 11 and 11-30 a.m.or	12 noon".Similarly no questions were put to Kira Ram about the  stateof  habillement	 of the wife and respondent No.	 2  and	 thewitness	 never deposed about this fact.	 The  learned  trialJudge  erroneously thought that when Kira Ram spoke  of	 thewife  and respondent No. 2 lie " speaks as if '	 they'	werefully  dressed and not en deshabille " and the Appeal  Courttook  this  finding to be " as if  this	 witness's  evidenceshowed	that both of them were fully dressed".	 The  AppealCourt also seems to have misdirected itself in regard to theduty  hours.  It said " the sweeper concedes that he was  onduty  from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. " There is also evidence  whichhas not been rejected that morning tea was served to all thethree,	i.e., the wife, respondent No. 2 and the  mother  ofthe latter in the same room.  The statement of Kira Ram thatthe  wife  and	respondent  No. 2  occupied  the  same	roomreceives corroboration from Ex. 6 the hotel bill and receiptdated  July 29, 1950 for room No. 10 in the name of Mr.	 andMrs.  Charles Chaplin.	This document even though  contempo-raneous	 with  the events under consideration  and  stronglycorroborative of Kira Ram's evidence and of the statement ofCardoza	 that when Mr. and Mrs. Charles Chaplin	 "stayed  inthe hotel, they stayed in their own room " does not seem  tohave  been  brought to the notice of either  of	 the  Courtsbelow.	 Because  of the infirmities pointed out  above	 theimport	of the testimony of Kira Ram which has in  the	mainbeen  accepted by both the Courts below has been missed	 andits necessary consequences ignored.1418Then there is the evidence as to disappearance of the  entryin the Hotel Visitor's Book which was in the handwriting  ofrespondent No. 2. This entry was in the assumed name of	 Mr.and  Mrs.  Charles  Chaplin  from  Hong	 Kong  but  when  he(respondent No. 2) was asked to fill in the Foreigner's formthe  entry  was changed from Hong Kong to  Samastipur.	 Theentry  itself  could  not be produced in  Court	 because  asdeposed	 by Cardoza, respondent No. 2 came to the hotel	 andby  managing  to send the hotel servant away from  the	roomwhere  the  Visitor's Book was kept, he tore off  the  pagescontaining this entry.	This fact receives support from	 thecomplaint  which Cardoza made to the police on	December  5,1950, and the entry in regard to this complaint made in	 theStation	  House	 Diary	of  the	 same  date.	Both   thesedocuments  have	 been  produced as Exs. 1/1  and  1/2.	 Thesignificance of this piece of evidence lies in the fact thatit was done after the husband started collecting evidence ofadultery  and  after lie and his sister	 had  inspected	 theentry	which  according,  to  his  statement  was  in	 thehandwriting of respondent No. 2.The  reason of the wife's visit to Patna was tooth  trouble.After her tooth was extracted she did not ,ice her  -Dentistagain  even though he had asked her to (lo so.	Her  versionis  that she returned to Samastipur the same  evening  whichthe Courts below have not accepted.  Thus it shows that	 shestayed	on  at the Central Hotel, Patna for four  days	withrespondent  No. 2 without any reason being given by her	 andso  far as the hotel bill and receipt Ex. 6 goes, the  hotelcharges for her stay were paid by " Charles Chaplin ", i.e.,respondent  No.	 2  and not by her.   This  fact  has  againescaped	 the notice of both the Courts below.  And  this  ismore in consonance with guilt than innocence of the wife.There are then the statements of J. A. Baker P.W. 8 and T.H.O'Conior P.W. 9 to the effect that in September 1950, at thehouse of O'Connor respondent No. 2 in the presence of  thesetwo witnesses boasted of his having had a good time with thewife and that she was a remarkable lady ". Respondent No. 2		     1419had also love letters purporting to be from the wife,  partsof which he read out to these witnesses.  They repeated	 thestory  to  the husband which set him thinking.	 Shearer  J.held  this  part of the evidence to be true and	 the  AppealCourt  also  accepted it but construed it  as  showing	thatthere  was no adulterous connection at that time,  i.e.,  inSeptember or it had ended at the instance of the wife.	Evenas  it is this finding is not destructive of  the  husband'scase  as to adultery at Patna in the month of July;  on	 theother hand it supports adulterous relations.The  presence of the mother of respondent No. 2	 might	havebeen  a shield against the commission of adultery  at  Patnabut the document Ex. 8 which has been accepted by the Courtsbelow  to  have a substratum of truth just strips  it  away.This document is indicative of the mother's attitude towardsthe  wife.   The  following extract from  this	document  isrelevant as showing that she wanted the wife for her son:"  How	nice it would have been if you had  married  my	 son-David'.   On another occasion while having tea	 along	withher  she begged me to leave my husband and go away with	 herson who was ruining his life and health and could not settledown  to  a job as he could not bear to see  me	 married  toanother man."The  presence of the mother would thus be no  impediment  toadulterous  relations  between	the two.  The  wife  in	 thewitness	 box wholly denied the episode of the Central  Hotelincluding  her stay there, which has deprived the Courts  ofher  explanation.   We	are, therefore	unable	to  get	 anyassistance  from her or as a matter of that from  respondentNo. 2 as to what happened in the hotel at Patna.The  appellant	contends  that the  only  conclusion  to  bearrived	 at upon the evidence taken as a whole is  that	 thewife was guilty of adultery with respondent No. 2. In  otherwords the evidence was in quality and quantity such that  itsatisfies the requirements of s.   14	of  the	 Act   whichprovides:S. 14 "In case the Court is satisfied on the1801420evidence   that	 the  case  of	the  petitioner	  has	beenproved....................................................."The  important words requiring consideration are  "satisfiedon  the evidence ". These words imply that the duty  of	 theCourt  is to pronounce a decree if satisfied that  the	casefor the petitioner has been proved but dismiss the  petitionif  riot  so  satisfied.   In  s.  4  of  the  English	Act,Matrimonial  Causes Act of 1937 the same words occur and  ithas  been  there held that the evidence must  be  clear	 andsatisfactory  beyond the mere balance of  probabilities	 andconclusive  in	the  sense that it  will  satisfy  what	 SirWilliam Scott described in Loveden v. Loveden (1), as "	 theguarded	 discretion  of' a reasonable and just man  ".	LordMacDermott referring to the description of Sir William Scottsaid' in Preston Jones v. Preston Jones (2):"  The	jurisdiction in divorce involves the status  of	 theparties	 and the public interest requires that the  marriagebond  shall  not  be set aside	lightly	 or  without  strictenquiry.   The terms of the statute recognise this  plainly,and  I	think  it would be quite out  of  keeping  with	 theanxious	 nature	 of its provisions to hold  that  the  courtmight	be  "satisfied	"  in  respect	of  a	ground	 fordissolution,   with   something	 less  than   proof   beyondreasonable doubt.  I should, perhaps, add that I do not basemy conclusion as to the appropriate standard of proof on anyanalogy	 drawn from the criminal law.  I do not think it  ispossible  to  say, at any rate since the  decision  of	thisHouse	in   Mordaunt  v.  Moncrieffe  (3)  that   the	 twojurisdictions are other than distinct.	The true reason,  asit  seems to me, why both accept the same general  standard-proof beyond reasonable doubt-lies not in any analogy but inthe  gravity and public importance of the issue	 with  whicheach is concerned."The  Act  lays	down in s. 7 that Courts in  all  suits	 andproceedings  under  the	 Act shall act and  give  relief  onprinciples and rules which in the opinion of the(1)  (1810) 161 E.R. 648, 649; (1810) 2 Hag.  Con. 1, 3.(2)  [1951] A.C. 391, 417.(3)  (1874) 30 L.T. 649.1421Court are as nearly as may be conformable to the  principlesand  rules  on which the Court for Divorce  and	 MatrimonialCauses in England for the time being acts and gives  relief.In  our	 opinion the rule laid down by the  House  of  Lordswould  provide	the principle and rule which  Indian  Courtsshould	apply to cases governed by the Act and the  standardof  proof in divorce cases would therefore be such  that  ifthe  judge  is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt as  to	 thecommission of the matrimonial offence he would be  satisfiedwithin	 the  meaning  of  s.  14  of  the  Act.   The	 twojurisdictions,	i.e., matrimonial and criminal are  distinctjurisdictions but the terms of s. 14 make it plain that whenthe  Court is to be satisfied on the evidence in respect  ofmatrimonial  offences  the  guilt  must	 be  proved   beyondreasonable doubt and it is on that principle that the Courtsin India would act and the reason for adopting this standardof proof is the grave consequence which follows a finding ofguilt in matrimonial causes.Gower v. Gower (1) was pressed before us by counsel for	 theappellant as to the approach that the court should have to amatrimonial offence.  But in view of the decision in PrestonJones Case (2) it is unnecessary to discuss that case.In a suit based on a matrimonial offence it is not necessaryand  it is indeed rarely possible to prove the issue by	 anydirect	evidence  for in very few cases can  such  proof  beobtainable.  The question to be decided in the present	casetherefore,  is whether on the evidence which has  been	led,the  court  can be satisfied beyond  reasonable	 doubt	thatadultery was committed by the wife with respondent No. 2  atPatna  between	July 25, 1950, and July 28,  1950.   In	 ouropinion	  the	facts	proved	 are   quantitatively	 andqualitatively  sufficient to satisfy the test laid  down  bythe House of Lords in Preston Jones Case (2).  The wife wentto  Patna and stayed with respondent No. 2 under an  assumedname.	They  occupied	the same room, i.e.,  room  No.	 10.There  was  undoubtedly	 a guilty  inclination	and  passionindicated by the conduct of respondent No. 2 and there is nocontrary indication as to(1) [1951] 1 All E. R. 804.(2)[1951] A.C. 391, 417.1422the inclination and conduct of the wife.  On the other	handher  conduct  as  shown	 by  the  evidence  is	so  entirelyconsistent  with her guilt as to justify the  conclusion  ofher  having  committed adultery with respondent	 No.  2	 andtherefore  the finding of the Courts below as to  the  guiltshould be reversed.We  would,  therefore,	allow this  appeal,  set  aside	 thejudgment and decree of the High Court and pass a decree nisifor  dissolution of marriage.  As adultery has	been  provedrespondent  No. 2 shall pay the costs in this Court  and  inthe Courts below.	   Appeal allowed.