PETITIONER:ALAMGIR & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:14/11/1958BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.BENCH:GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.SARKAR, A.K.CITATION: 1959 AIR  436		  1959 SCR  Supl. (1) 464 CITATOR INFO : R	    1972 SC1823	 (10)ACT:Criminal Trial-Detaining married woman with criminal  intent-Detaining,  if	 must  be against  will	 of  woman-Sentence,enhancement  of-Indian	Penal Code, 1860 (XLV of  1860),  s.498-Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (V of 1898), s. 439.HEADNOTE:One R, the wife of S, disappeared from her husband's  house.She  was  traced to the house of the appellants, A  and	 hisbrother B. When S went there and asked A to let his wife  gowith him A told him that he had married her and B threatenedS  and	asked him to go away.  The appellants  were  chargedunder  s.  498 Indian Penal Code for detaining R  when	theyknew  or had reason to believe that she was the wedded	wifeof  S, with intent to have illict intercourse with her.	 Theappellants  pleaded that R was not validly married to S	 andthat  she had not been detained by them inasmuch as she	 wastired  of living with S and had voluntarily and of her	freewill  come  to	stay with them.	 The  Magistrate  found	 theappellants  guilty,  convicted them and	 sentenced  them  toundergo simple imprisonment for two months each.  On  appealthe Sessions Judge confirmed the conviction but reduced	 thesentence to a fine of Rs. 50/- each.  The appellants filed arevision  before  the High Court.  The High Court  issued  anotice	of  enhancement	 and after  hearing  the  appellantsdismissed the revision and enhanced the sentence to rigorousimprisonment for six months each.Held,  that  detention in s. 498 means keeping back  a	wifefrom her husband or any other person having the care of	 heron  behalf  of	her husband.  Such keeping back	 may  be  byforce; but it need not be by force.  It can be the result ofpersuasion,  allurement	 or  blandishments  which  may	haveeither	caused	the willingness of the woman,  or  may	haveencouraged, or co-operated with, her initial inclination  toleave her husband.  The object of the section is to  protectthe  rights of the husband and it cannot be any	 defence  tothe charge to say that, though the husband has been deprivedof his rights, the wife is willing to injure the said rightsand so the person who is responsible for the willingness hasnot detained her.  A was rightly convicted as the charge  ofdetention  was	proved against him on the  findings  of	 theCourts below that he had offered to marry R and had  therebyeither	persuaded or encouraged her to leave  her  husband'shouse.	But the charge was not made out against B as it	 wasnot proved that he had offered any inducement,	blandishmentor allurement to R for leaving the protection of her husbandand for refusing to return to him.465Sundara	 Dass Teva, (1868) IV Mad.  H. C. R.  20;  RamaswamyUdayar v. Raju Udayar, A. 1. R. (1953) Mad. 333 ; Emperor v.Jan  Mohomed, (1902) IV Bom.  L.R. 435; Broomfield,  J.,  inEmperor v.Mahiji Fula, (1933) I.L.R. 58 Bom. 88, Emperor  v.Ram Narayan Baburao Kapur, (1937) 39 Bom.  L.R. 61;  MahadeoRama  v. Emperor, A.I.R. (1943) Bom. 179; Prithi  Missir  v.Harak  Nath Singh, I.L.R. (1937) 1 Cal. 166;  Bipad  BhanjanSarkar v. Emperor, I.L.R. (1940) 2 Cal. 93; Banarsi Raut  v.Emperor, A.I.R. (1938) Pat. 432 and Bansi Lal v. The  Crown,(19I3) Punj.  L.R. 1066, approved.Divatia,  J.,  in Emperor v. Mahiji Fula, (1933)  I.L.R.  58Bom. 88, Mabarak Sheikh v.-Ahmed Newaz, (1939) 43 C.W.N. 980and  Harnam  Singh  v.	Emperor,  A.I.R.  (1939)  Lah.	295,disapproved.Held  further, that the High Court was not justified in	 en-hancing	 the sentence to six months  rigorous  imprisonment,and it should have only restored the sentence passed by	 thetrial  Court.  The question of sentence is normally  in	 thediscretion of the trial Court and the High Court can enhancethe  sentence  only  if it is satisfied	 that  the  sentenceimposed	 by the trial Court is unduly lenient, or,  that  inpassing	  the  order  of  sentence,  the  trial	 Court	 hadmanifestly  failed  to	consider the  relevant	facts.	 Thesentence  of two months simple imprisonment imposed  by	 thetrial  Court was not so unduly or manifestly lenient as	 notto meet the ends of justice.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 187  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedDecember  7,  1955,  of the Patna  High	 Court	in  CriminalRevision  No. 875 of 1954, arising out of the  judgment	 andorder  dated  May 31, 1954, of the Court of  the  AdditionalSessions Judge at Arrah in Criminal Appeal No. 293 of 1953.B.   K. Saran and K. L. Mehta, for the appellants.B.   H. Dhebar and T. M. Sen, for the respondent.1958.  November 14.  The Judgment of the Court was deliveredbyGAJENDERAGADKAR,  J.-This  criminal appeal  raises  a  shortquestion  about	 the construction of the word  "  detains  "occurring in a. 498 of the Indian Penal Code.  It arises in'this way.  The two appellants were charged before the  trialmagistrate  under  s. 498 of the Code in that  on  or  aboutOctober	 27,  1952, at the village Mohania  they  wrongfullydetained Mst.59466Rahmatia, the legally married wife of the complainant  SakluMian,  when they knew or had reason to believe that she	 wasthe  wedded  wife  of the, complainant	and  was  under	 hisprotection,  with  intent to have illicit  intercourse	withher.   The  prosecution	 case was that	Mst.   Rahmatia	 haddisappeared  from her husband's house on October  21,  1952;the complainant made J. search for her for several days	 butwas not able to trace her whereabouts.	Ultimately he  fileda  complaint at the police station after he was informed  byShakoor	 Mian (P.  W. 4) that he had seen the  complainant'swife  at the house of the two appellants.   The	 complainantthen went to the house of the appellants along with  ShakoorMian  (P.  W. 4), Musa Mian (P. W. 2) and Suleman  Mian	 (P.W.  3);	 they saw the woman in the house of  the  appellantswhereupon  the complainant asked appellant No. I Alamgir  tolet  his wife go with him but appellant No. I told him	thathe  had	 married her and appellant No. 2 warned him  to	 getaway and said that, if he persisted, he would be driven out.This  story is corroborated by the three companions  of	 thecomplainant.The  appellants	 denied the charge.  They pleaded  that	 thecomplainant had not validly married -the woman and that	 shehad not been detained by them.	According to them, the womanwas  tired of living with the complainant and that  she	 hadvoluntarily  and  of  her free will come to  stay  with	 theappellants.The  learned  trial  magistrate	 believed  the	 prosecutionevidence,  rejected  the pleas raised by the  defence,	con-victed	the  appellants of the charge framed  and  sentencedthem  to  undergo simple imprisonment for two  months  each.This older of conviction and sentence was challenged by	 theappellants  by	their appeal before the court  of  sessions.The   appellate	 court	confirmed  the	conviction  of	 theappellants   but   reduced  their   sentence   from   simpleimprisonment  for  two	months to a fine of  Rs.  50  or  indefault	 simple	 imprisonment  for  one	 month	each.	 Theappellants  then  moved	 the  High Court  at  Patna  in	 itsrevisional  jurisdiction.  When the  revisional	 applicationcame  to  be heard before Choudhary, J., the  learned  judgethought467that  the  appellate  court  should  not  have	reduced	 thesentence  imposed on the appellants by the trial  magistrateand  so	 he issued a notice against the	 appellants  callingupon  them  to show cause why their sentence should  not  beenhanced.   This notice and the main revisional	 applicationwere  ultimately  heard	 by Ramaswamy  and  Imam,  JJ.,	 whoconfirmed the order of conviction and enhanced the  sentenceagainst	 both the appellants by ordering that each  of	themshould	 suffer	 six  months'  rigorous	 imprisonment.	  Anapplication  made by the appellants to the High Court for  acertificate  to	 appeal	 to this Court	was  rejected.	 Theappellants  then applied for and obtained special  leave  toappeal	to  this Court.	 That is how this  appeal  has	comebefore us for final disposal.On behalf of the appellants, Mr. B. K. Saran has urged	thatthe  evidence in the case clearly shows that the  woman	 wasdissatisfied  with  her husband and had left his  house	 andprotection voluntarily and of her free will.  If having thusleft the house she came to stay with the appellants and theyallowed	 her to stay with them, it cannot be said that	theyhave  detained her within the meaning of s. 498.   Accordingto him, the word " details " used in s. 498 must necessarilyimply that the woman detained is unwilling to stay with	 theaccused	 and has been compelled so to stay with him  againsther will, and desire.  It is difficult to imagine that, if awoman is willing to stay with a person, it can be said	thatthe  person  has  detained  her.   That	 is  not  the  plaingrammatical  meaning  of the word " detains ".	It  is	thisargument  which calls for our consideration in	the  presentappeal.At  the outset it would be relevant to remember that s.	 498'occurs in Ch.	XX of the Indian Penal Code which deals withoffences.  relating to marriage.  The provisions of s.	498,like those of s. 497, are intended to protect the rights  ofthe  husband  and not those of the wife.  The  gist  of	 theoffence	 under s. 498 appears to be the deprivation  of	 thehusband of his custody and his proper control over his	wifewith the object of having illicit intercourse with her.	  Inthis connection it would be material to compare and contrastthe468provisions  of	s.  498 with those of s. 366  of  the  Code.Section	 366 deals with cases where the woman  kidnapped  orabducted  is an unwilling party and does not respond to	 thecriminal  intention  of	 the accused.  In  these  cases	 theaccused intends to compel the victim afterwards to marry anyperson against her will or to force or seduce her to illicitintercourse.   In other words s. 366 is intended to  protectwomen  from  such abduction or kidnapping.  If it  is  shownthat  the  woman  who is alleged to have  been	abducted  orkidnapped  is  a  major and gave her free  consent  to	suchabduction  or  kidnapping,  it may prima  facie	 be  a	gooddefence to a charge under s. 366.  On the other hand s.	 498is intended to protect not the rights of the wife but  thoseof  her husband; and so prima facie the consent of the	wifeto deprive her husband of his proper control over her  wouldnot  be material.  It is the infringement of the  rights  ofthe   husband	coupled	 with  the  intention	of   illicitintercourse that is the essential ingredient of the  offenceunder  a. 498.	Incidentally it may be pointed out that	 theoffence under s. 498 is a minor offence as compared with theoffence under s. 366.The policy underlying the provisions of s. 498 may no  doubtsound inconsistent with the modern notions of the status  ofwomen  and  of	the  mutual  rights  and  obligations  undermarriage.  Indeed Mr. Saran vehemently argued before us thatit was time that ss. 497 and 498 were deleted from the PenalCode.	That,  however, is a question of policy	 with  whichcourts	are not concerned.  It is no doubt true that if	 thewords  used in a criminal statute are reasonably capable  oftwo  constructions, the construction which is favourable  tothe  accused  should  be preferred; but	 in  construing	 therelevant words, it is obviously necessary to have due regardto the context in which they have been used; and, as we willpresently  point out, it is the context in which  the  word"detains	 "  has been used in s. 498  that  is  substantiallyagainst the construction for which the appellant contends.Section 498 provides:469" Whoever takes or entices away any woman who is and whom heknows  or has reason to believe to be the wife of any  otherman,  from that man, or from any person having the  care  ofher  on	 behalf of that man, with intent that she  may	haveillicit intercourse with any person, or conceals or  detainswith  that  intent any such woman, shall  be  punished	withimprisonment,  of  either description for a term  which	 mayextend to' two years, or with fine, or with both.It would be noticed that there are three ingredients of	 thesection.   The offender must take or entice away or  concealor  detain  the wife of another person from such  person  orfrom  any other person having the care of her on  behalf  ofthe said person.  He must know or has reason to believe thatthe  woman  is the wife of another person; and	the  taking,enticing, concealing or detaining of the woman must be	withintent	that  she  may have  illicit  intercourse  with	 anyperson.	  It  is  clear that if	 the  intention	 of  illicitintercourse  is	 not proved the presence of  the  first	 twoingredients would not be enough to sustain the charge tinders. 498.	 It is only if the said intention is proved that  itbecomes	  necessary  to	 consider  whether  the	 two   otheringredients are proved or not.It  is	plain that four different kinds of  cases  are	con-templated  by  the section.  A woman may be  taken  away  orenticed	 away or concealed or detained.	 There is  no  doubtthat when the latter part of the section refers to any	suchwoman,	it does not mean any woman who is taken	 or  enticedaway  as described in the first part, but it refers  to	 anywoman  who is and whom the offender knows or has  reason  tobelieve	 to  be	 the  wife of any  other  man.	 It  is	 notseriously disputed that in the first three classes of  casesthe  consent  of the woman would not matter if it  is  shownthat  the  said	 consent is induced  or	 encouraged  by	 theoffender by words or acts or otherwise.	 Whether or not	 anyinfluence  proceeding from the offender has operated on	 themind of the woman or has co-operated with or encouraged	 herinclimations  would  always be a question of fact.   If,  onevidence,  the court is satisfied that the act of the  womanin470leaving	 her husband was caused either by the  influence  ofallurement  or blandishments proceeding from  the  offender,that  may be enough to bring his case within either  of	 thethree  classes	of  cases  mentioned by	 s.  498.   In	thisconnection,  when the consent or the free will of the  womanis  relied  upon  in defence, it  is  necessary	 to  examinewhether	 such  alleged consent or free will was not  due  toallurement or blandishments or encouragement proceeding fromthe offender.It  is,	 however, urged that, when the latter  part  of	 thesection	 speaks of detention, it must prima facie  refer  tothe  detention	of  a woman against her	 will.	 It  may  beconceded that the word " detains" may denote detention of  aperson	against his or her will ; but in the context of	 thesection	 it is impossible to give this meaning to  the	saidword.  If the object of the section had been to protect	 thewife   such  a	construction  would  obviously	 have	beenappropriate;  but,  since the object of the  section  is  toprotect the rights of the husband, it cannot be any  defenceto  the	 charge	 to say that, though the  husband  has	beendeprived  of his rights, the wife is willing to	 injure	 thesaid  rights  and so the person who is responsible  for	 herwillingness has not detained her.  Detention in the  contextmust mean keeping back a wife from her husband or any  otherperson having the care of her on behalf of her husband	withthe requisite intention.  Such keeping back may be by force;but  it	 need  not be by force.	 It can	 be  the  result  ofpersuasion,  allurement	 or blandishments which	 may  eitherleave  caused  the  willingness of the woman,  or  may	haveencouraged, or co-operated with, her initial inclination, toleave  her husband.  It seems to us that if the	 willingnessof  the	 wife is immaterial and it cannot be  a	 defence  incases falling tinder the first three categories mentioned ins.  498, it cannot be treated as material factor in  dealingwith the last category of case of detention mentioned in thesaid  section.	 Therefore, we are satisfied that  the	HighCourt was right in holding that the charge of detention	 hasbeen  proved  against appellant No. I inasmuch as  both	 thecourts of facts have found that471he  had offered to marry Mst.  Rahmatia and  thereby  eitherpersuaded  or encouraged her to leave her  husband's  house.It  may be that Rahmatia was dissatisfied with	her  husbandand  wanted  voluntarily to leave her husband; but,  on	 theevidence,  it  has  been  held	that  she  must	 have	beenencouraged or induced not to go back to her husband  becauseshe  knew that she would find ready shelter  and  protectionwith  appellant	 No. 1 and she must have looked	 forward  tomarry  him.  In fact appellant No. 1 claims to have  marriedher.   Thus there can be no doubt that he intended  to	haveillicit sexual intercourse with her.  That is the effect  ofconcurrent findings of fact recorded against appellant No. I;  and	it  would  not be open to  him	to  challenge  theircorrectness or propriety in the present appeal.This section has been the subject-matter of several judicialdecisions  and	it appears that, except for a few  notes  ofdissent,  there	 is a fair amount of unanimity	of  judicialopinion in favour of the construction which we feel inclinedto place on the word " detains " in s. 498.  It is, however,true that the relevant decisions, to some of which we  wouldpresently  refer disclose a striking difference of  approachin  dealing  with questions of fact.  It would	appear	thatthough the relevant portion of the section has received	 thesame construction in dealing with same or similar facts, thelearned	 judges	 have  differed in their  conclusion  as  towhether the accused person had been guilty of conduct  whichwould  bring  his case within s. 498.  This, however,  is  adifference  in	the  method  of	 approaching  evidence	 andassessing its effects.	It would be futile and even improperto  consider whether a particular conclusion drawn from	 thespecific  evidence  adduced in the case was  right  or	not.What  is important in such cases is to see how	the  sectionhas  been construed and, as we have just indicated,  in	 thematter	of  construction  there appears	 a  fair  amount  ofunanimity.  Let us now refer to some of the decisions  citedbefore us.In  1868, the Madras High Court held in Sundara	 Dass  Tevan(1) that depriving the husband of his(1)  (1868) IV Mad.  H.C.R. 20.472proper control of his wife for the purpose of illicit inter-course is the gist of the offence just as it is the  offenceof  taking  away  a  wife under	 the  same  section;  and  adetention occasioning such deprivation may be brought  aboutsimply by the influence of allurement and blandishment.	  Onthe facts of the case, however, the court was not  satisfiedthat  the  accused  bad	 offered  any  such  allurement	  orblandishment  and so the order of conviction passed  againstthe appellant was quashed. It appears that the	constructionput by the Madras High Court on s. 498 in this case has beengenerally  accepted in the said High Court (Vide:  RamaswamyUdayar v. Raju Udayar (1) ).The Bombay High Court has taken the same view in Emperor  v.Jan  Mahomed  (2).  It was held by the High Court  that	 theoffence contemplated by & 498 is complete if it appears thatthe accused went away with the woman in such a manner as  todeprive	 her  husband of the control of his wife;  the	factthat the woman accompanied the accused of her own free	willdoes not diminish the criminality of the act.  Even in	thiscase, the court was unable to discover any evidence,  director  indirect,  about  the intention of the  accused  or	 anyallurement  or blandishment offered by him and so the  orderof  conviction	passed against the accused  was	 set  aside.This  question came to be considered by the said High  Courtagain in Emperor v. Mahiji Fula (3).  Mr. Justice Broomfieldwho  delivered the main judgment of the Bench has  expressedthe view that " the word I detains ' means, by	deprivation,and  according to the ordinary use of the language  I  keepsback"';	 and  he  adds that ,there may be  various  ways  ofkeeping back.  It need not necessarily be by physical force.It  may	 be by persuasion or, as the Court  "  (Madras	HighCourt) " has observed in this particular case" (Sundara DassThevan (4)) " by allurement or blandishment ". On the facts,however, it appeared to the trial court that the conduct  ofthe accused did not bring his case within the mischief of s.498.  The wife of the complainant had been taken(1)  A.I.R. (1953) Mad. 333.(3)  (1933) I.L.R. 58 Bom. 88, 92.(2)  (1902) IV Bom.  L. R. 435.(4)  (1868) IV Mad.  H. C. R. 20.473away  by  her brother and she was  subsequently	 married  bynatra marriage to the accused.	The complainant learnt aboutthis  incident and went to the accused to ask him  to  allowhis  wife to go back to him.  On seeing the complainant	 andhis  friends  the  accused  came  out  with  a	dharia	 andthreatened  the complainant and his companions who then	 re-turned	to their village.  The conduct of the accused'	whenthe   complainant  approached  him,  it	 was  said,   cannotnecessarily  indicate  that  the accused  had  detained	 thewoman.	 This  was the' view taken by the  trial  court	 whoacquitted  the	accused ; on appeal the High  Court  saw  noreason to differ and so the order of acquittal was confirmedby  it.	 Divatia, J., who delivered the concurring  judgmentapparently  differed from Broomfield, J., in regard  to	 theconstruction  of  the word " detains ". He agreed  that	 thescheme	of  s.	498  showed that though	 the  woman  may  beperfectly  willing to go with the man the offence of  takingor  enticing away would occur because it simply consists  oftaking	or enticing away a woman without anything more;	 butaccording  to him, in the latter part of the section,  whichspeaks of concealing or detaining the woman, the woman wouldbe  detained  only  if she is prevented from  going  in	 anyquarter	 where	she  wants  to go.   In	 our  opinion,	thisconstruction  is not sound.  It is not easy to see  how	 theact  of	 concealing the woman would necessarily	 import	 anyconsiderations	of  the	 consent of  the  woman	 ;  besides,according to Divatia, J., himself, the woman's Consent wouldbe irrelevant in the cases of -taking or enticing her  away.If that be so, it is difficult to make her consent  relevantand  decisive  in  dealing  with  the  cases  of  detention.Unfortunately  the  learned judge does not  appear  to	haveappreciated the fact that the primary and the sole object ofs. 498 is to protect the husband's rights and not the rightsof the wife.  If it is shown that the woman's inclination tostay  away  from  her  husband	was  either  instigated	  orencouraged  by	the offender, she can be said to  have	beendetained or kept away from her husband within the meaning ofthe section60474though	at the time of the detention she may be	 willing  tosay with the offender.	The same view has been expressed  byBroomfield  and Sen, JJ., in Emperor v.Ram  Narayan  BaburaoKapur (1) and by Beaumont C.J., and Sen, J., in Mahadeo Ramav.  Emperor (2).  We may point out that in both these  casesthe court was have detained the woman.The  Calcutta  High  Court appears to  have  put  a  similarconstruction  on the word "detention".	In Prithi Missir  v.Harak Nath Singh (3) it has been held by the said High Courtthat  "	 the  word  ' detention'  is  ejusdem  generis	withenticement  and	 concealment.  It does not  imply  that	 thewoman  is  being  kept against her will but  there  must  beevidence  to show that the accused did something  which	 hadthe  effect  of preventing the woman from returning  to	 herhusband	 ". On the merits, however, the court held that	 thelearned	 trial	magistrate  had not  come  to  any  definitefinding of fact.  In fact it did not appear that the accusedwas  keeping the complainant's wife as his mistress; and  onthe whole, the court was not satisfied that the accused	 wasresponsible  for the conduct of the complainant's  wife	 forleaving	 her husband's house and so detention was  held	 notproved	against	 the accused.  In Mabarak  Sheikh  v.  AhmedNewaz  (4)  the same High Court held that there	 can  be  nodetention  of a woman within the meaning of s.	498,  secondpart,  if the woman is an absolutely free agent to  go	awayfrom the person charged whenever she likes.  It appears thatthe learned judges were inclined to hold that there could beno detention if the woman was an absolutely free agent to goaway  from the person charged whenever she likes to  do	 so;and  in support of this view they have referred to  some  ofthe  decisions	which  we  have	 already  considered.	Withrespect, it appears that the effect of the earlier decisionshas  not been properly considered and the findings  of	factrecorded  in the said decisions are assumed to	lend  colourto, and modify, the construction of the section(1)   (1937) 39 Bom.  L.R. 61.(3)  I.L.R. [1937] 1 Cal. 166.(2)   A.I.R. (1943) Bom. 179.(4)  (1939) 43 C.W.N. 980.475adopted by them.  Besides, the relevant observations  appearto  be	obiter because, on the facts, it was found  in	thiscase  that the woman was not a free agent and so the  chargeagainst	 the accused under s. 498 was held established.	  InBipad Bhanjan Sarkar v. Emperor (1), Henderson and Khundkar,JJ., have considered the word " detains " in the same manneras  we have done.  However, as in many other cases, in	thiscase also, the court found that there was absolutely nothingto show that the accused had done anything which could bringhis case within the mischief of s. 498.The  Patna High Court, in Banarsi Raut v. Emperor  (2),	 hasheld  that providing shelter to a married woman is  such  aninducement  as to amount to detention within the meaning  ofs.  498.   This case shows that where a	 married  woman	 wasfound  living in the house of the accused for some time	 andsexual	intercourse between them had been  established,	 thecourt was inclined to draw the inference that there was per-suasion or inducement of the woman as would come within	 themeaning	 of  the word " detention ". This is a case  on	 theother  side  of the line where on facts	 the  inference	 wasdrawn against the accused.The  Lahore High Court has taken a similar view as early  as1913 in Bansi Lal v. The Crown (3 ). The court has held thatwhere  the accused had provided a house for the woman  whereshe stayed after deserting her husband under the  protectionof the accused as his mistress, it was active conduct on hispart  which was sufficient to bring him within the terms  ofs.  498.  In 1939, however, a Division Bench of	 the  LahoreHigh  Court  has taken a contrary view in  Harnam  Singh  v.Emperor (4).  In this case the revisional application  filedby  Harnam  Singh against his conviction under	s.  498	 wasfirst  argued before Din Muhammad, J., who referred it to  aDivision  Bench because he thought that the question of	 lawraised	was of some importance.	 In his	 referring  judgmentthe  learned judge mentioned some of the relevant  decisionsto which his attention was drawn and indicated his own	viewthat(1)  I.L.R. [1940] 2 Cal. 93.(3)  (1913) XlV Punjab L. R. 1066.(2)  A.I.R. (1938) Pat. 432.(4)  A.I.R. (1939) Lah. 295.476the word " detains " would naturally imply some overt act onthe part of the person who detains in relation to the persondetained.   He	thought	 that mere  blandishment  would	 notconstitute  any relevant factor in the matter of  detention.The   matter  was  then	 placed	 before	 a  Division   Benchconsisting  of Young, C. J., and Blacker,  J.  Unfortunatelythe  judgment  of the Division Bench does  not	discuss	 thequestion  of the construction of s. 498 ; it merely  recordsthe  conclusion	 of  the  court in these  words:  "  In	 ouropinion,  the word " detains " clearly implies some  act  onthe  part of the accused by which the woman's movements	 arerestrained and this again implies unwillingness on her part.Detention   cannot   include   persuasion   by	 means	  ofblandishments  or similar inducements which would leave	 thewoman  free to go if she wished ". The learned	judges	alsoadded that they were of the opinion that the word "  detains" cannot be reasonably construed as having reference to	 thehusband.    In	our  opinion,  these  observations  do	 notcorrectly  represent  the  true purport and  effect  of	 theprovisions of s. 498.The  position, therefore, is that, on the findings  of	factmade by the lower courts against appellant No. I it must  beheld that he has been rightly convicted under s. 498.That takes us to the question of sentence imposed on him  bythe  High  Court  in its revisional  jurisdiction.   We	 aresatisfied that the High Court was not justified in directingappellant  No.	I to suffer rigorous  imprisonment  for	 sixmonths	by  way	 of  enhancement of  the  sentence.   It  isunnecessary  to emphasise that the question of	sentence  isnormally  in the discretion of the trial judge.	 It  is	 forthe   trial  judge  to	take  into  account   all   relevantcircumstances  and decide what sentence would meet the	endsof justice in a given case.  The High Court undoubtedly	 hasjurisdiction  to enhance such sentence under s. 439  of	 theCode  of  Criminal Procedure; but this jurisdiction  can  beproperly exercised only if the High Court is satisfied	thatthe  sentence imposed by the trial judge is unduly  lenient,or, that, in passing the order of sentence, the trial  judgehad manifestly failed to consider the477relevant facts.	 It may be that the High Court thought	thatthe  appellate order passed by the Sessions Judge  modifyingthe  original  sentence was wrong, and in  that	 sense,	 theissue  of  notice  under  s. 439 of  the  Code	of  CriminalProcedure  against  appellant No. 1 to show  cause  why	 hissentence  should  not be enhanced may have  been  justified;but,  in enhancing the sentence, the High Court	 should,  wethink, have restored the sentence passed by the trial  judgehimself.   It is true that, in enhancing the  sentence,	 theHigh  Court  has  observed that "  women  in  this  country,whether chaste or unchaste, must be protected and that it isthe duty of the court to see that they are given  sufficientprotection  ". We are inclined to think that the  considera-tion set out in this observation is really not, very helpfuland  not decisive because, as we have already  observed,  s.498  does not purport to protect the rights of women but  itsafeguards the rights of husbands.  Besides, in the  presentcase,  it  is clear that Mst.  Rahmatia, who is a  woman  ofloose	moral	character,   was   dissatisfied	  with	 thecomplainant,  who is her second husband, and was willing  tomarry appellant No. 1. In such a case, though appellant	 No.I is guilty under s. 498, it is difficult to accept the viewof  the High Court that the sentence of two  months'  simpleimprisonment  imposed  on  him, by the trial  court  was  sounduly	or  manifestly lenient as not to meet  the  ends  ofjustice.   It would not be right for the appellate court  tointerfere  with	 the order of sentence passed by  the  trialcourt merely on the ground that if it had tried the case  itwould  have imposed a slightly higher or  heavier  sentence.We  would  accordingly modify the order of  sentence  passedagainst	 appellant  No. 1 by reducing it to that  of  simpleimprisonment for two months.The  case of appellant No. 2 is clearly different from	thatof  appellant  No. 1. The findings of fact recorded  by	 thecourts below do not implicate appellant No. 2 in the act  ofpersuasion or offering blandishments or inducements to	Mst.Rahmatia.  The only evidence against this appellant is	thatwhen  the complainant went to take away his  wife  appellantNo. 2 threatened478him.   The record shows that appellant No. 2 is the  brotherof  appellant  No.  1; and, if	knowing	 that  Rahmatia	 hadmarried his brother, appellant No. 2 told the complainant towalk away, that cannot legally justify the inference that hemust have offered any inducement, blandishment or allurementto  Rahmatia for leaving the protection of her	husband	 andrefusing to return to him.  Indeed the courts below have notconsidered the case of this appellant separately on its	 ownmerits at all.	In our opinion, the conviction of  appellantNo.  2 is not supported by any evidence on the record.	 Theresult	is  the	 appeal	 preferred by  appellant  No.  2  isallowed, the order of conviction and sentence passed againsthim  is	 set  aside and he is ordered to  be  acquitted	 anddischarged.Appeal of appellant No. 1 dismissed.Appeal of appellant No. 2 allowed.