PETITIONER:GARIKAPATTI VEERAYA	Vs.RESPONDENT:N.   SUBBIAH CHOUDHURYDATE OF JUDGMENT:01/02/1957BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BENCH:DAS, SUDHI RANJAN (CJ)BHAGWATI, NATWARLAL H.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMASINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.DAS, S.K.CITATION: 1957 AIR  540		  1957 SCR  488ACT:Supreme	 Court, Appellate Jurisdiction of-- Decree in	suitinstituted  prior to the Constitution reversed in appeal  byHigh  Court after the Constitution-Value  of  subject-mattershort  of  twenty-thousand Appeal, if lies-Vested  right  ofappeal-Constitution of India, Arts.133, 135.HEADNOTE:This application for special leave to appeal arose out of  asuit instituted on April 22, 1949, and valued at Rs. 11,400.The  Trial  Court dismissed the suit and the High  Court  inappeal	 reversed  that	 decision  on  February	 10,   1955.Application  for  leave to appeal to the Supreme  Court	 wasrefused	 by the High Court on the ground that the value	 didnot come upto Rs. 20,000.  It was contended on behalf of theapplicant  that	 he  had a vested right	 of  appeal  to	 theFederal Court under the law as it then stood and that  Courthaving	been substituted by the Supreme Court, he was as  ofright  entitled to appeal to that Court under Art.   I35  Ofthe Constitution.Held,  (per  Das C.J., Bhagwati, B. P. Sinha and S.  K.	 Dasjj., Venkatarama Ayyar J. dissenting) that the contention ofthe  applicant was well-founded, that he had a vested  rightof  appeal to the Federal Court on and from the date of	 thesuit  and  the	application  for  special  leave  should  beallowed.The  vested  right of appeal was a  substantive	 right	and,although  it could be exercised only in case of	 an  adversedecision, it was governed by the law prevailing at the	timeof  commencement  of the suit and comprised  all  successiverights	 of  appeal  from  court  to  court,  which   reallyconstituted  one  proceeding.  Such a right could  be  takenaway  only by a subsequent enactment either expressly or  bynecessary intendment.Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd.  V. Irving, (1905) A.C.369, followed.Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin, (1929) I.L.R. 56 Cal. 5I2 and In reVasudeva Samiiar, (1928) I.L.R. 52 Mad. 361, relied on.Case-law reviewed.Article	 133 Of the Constitution had no application to	suchcases.	It was not intended to have retrospective  operationso as to take away this vested right nor did it do so eitherin  express  terms or by  necessary  intendment.   Correctlyconstrued  it  should be read as restricted  to	 only  thosejudgments,  decrees  and  final orders of a  High  Court  inrespect of which there was no such489vested	right  of  appeal,  as	otherwise  cl.	2o  of	 theAdaptation  of Laws Order, 1950, which saves such  a  right,would  become nugatory.	 A litigant in a Princely State	 whocould  have no vested right of appeal to the  Federal  Courtmust, however, come under Art. 133.Janardan  Reddy	 v. The State, (1950) S.C.R.  940,  KeshavanMadhava Menon v. The State of Bombay, (1951) S.C.R. 228	 andDajisahib  Mane v. Shankar Rao Vithal Rao, (1955)  2  S.C.R.872, referred to.This vested right of appeal acquired under the old law was amatter	contemplated  by Art.  I35 Of  the  Constitution  inrelation to which the jurisdiction and powers of the FederalCourt	were   exercisable  at	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution  and as such it was within the purview  of	 theappellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court, and the  appealwas  entertainable by it.  Article I35 could not be  limitedto  such cases only where the right of appeal  had  actuallyarisen	in  a concrete form, and was no	 mere  potentiality,immediately before the Constitution.Ramaswami  Chettiar  v. The Official Receiver,	A.I.R.	1951Mad.  1051.  Veeranna v. China Venkanna,  I.L.R.  1953	Mad.1079, Probirendra Mohan v. Berhampore Bank Ltd.	 A.I.R. 1954Cal.  289,  Ram Sahai v. Ram Sewak, A.I.R.  1956  All.	321,Tajammul  Hussain v. Mst.  Qaisar Jagan Begam,	A.I.R.	1956All. 638 and The Indian Trade and General Insurance Co. Ltd.v. Raj Mal Pahar Chand, A.I.R. 1956 Punj. 228, overruled.Canada Cement Co. Ltd. v. East Montreal (Town of), (1922)  IA.C. 249 and Nathoo Lal v. Durga Prasad, (1955) I S.C.R. 51,distinguished.Per Venkatarama Ayyar 1. A right of appeal was undoubtedly asubstantive  right but it did not therefore, follow that  itvested in the parties to a suit on and from the date of	 itscommencement  and  the decision in Colonial  Sugar  RefiningCompany Ltd. v. Irving on which such a theory was sought  tobe   founded  was  neither  supportable	 in  principle	 norwarranted by the authorities it relied on.Right to appeal to a superior court could arise only on	 thepassing of an adverse decision and the rights of  successiveappeals	 provided  by the law did not  constitute  either  asingle proceeding or a single right as will be apparent fromthe relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure.Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v. Irving, (1905)	A.C.369, not followed.Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin, (1929) I.L.R. 56 Cal. 5I2 and In reVasudeva Samiar, (1928) I.L.R. 52 Mad. 361, dissented from.Case-law discussed.Assuming  that	the petitioner had such a  vested  right  ofappeal to the Federal Court before the commencement of, the490Constitution,  that right must be held to have	ceased	withthe  repeal  of	 the  Government of  India  Act,  1935,	 andconsequent  a  abolition  of  the  Federal  Court,  by	 theConstitution.Veeranna v. Chinna Venkanna, I.L.R. 1953 Mad.  I079 and DajiSahib  Mane v. Shankar Rao Vithal Rao Mane, (1955) 2  S.C.R.872, relied on.There was, therefore, nothing on which Cl. 20 Of the Adapta-tion  of  Laws Order, 1950, could operate so as to  keep  italive.	Nor could this Court be considered to be a successorof the Federal Court so as to attract the operation of	thatclause.State  of Seraikella v. Union of India, (1951)	S.C.R.	474,relied on.Article	 I33  applied to all judgments,	 decrees  and  finalorders of High Courts in Civil Proceedings passed after	 thecommencement  of the Constitution irrespective of the  datesof  their institution and if an appeal did not	satisfy	 itsrequirement   as  to  valuation	 it  must  be  held  to	  beincompetent.   Any  vested right of appeal that	 might	haveexisted prior to the Constitution must be held to have	beentaken away by it by necessary implication.Canada	Cement	Co.  v. East Montreal, (1922)  1  A.C.	249,Durousseau v. United States, 3 L. Ed. 232 : 6 Cranch 307 andBaltimoye  and Potomac Railroad Company v. J. H.  Grant,  98U.S. 23I : 25 L. Ed. 231, referred to.Article 135 Of the Constitution could have no application tosuch  a	 case as Art. 133 applied and there  was  no  vestedright  to appeal to the Federal Court in relation  to  whichjurisdiction  was  exercisable	by  that  Court	 immediatelybefore	 the   commencement  of	  the	Constitution.	 Theapplication for special leave must, therefore, be refused.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JUIRISDICTION: Petition for Special Leave toappeal No. 170 of 1955 and Civil Miscellaneous Petition	 No.579 of 1956.Petition  under Article 136 of the Constitution for  specialleave to appeal from the judgment and decree dated March  4,1955, of the Andhra High Court in A.S. No. 301 of 1951.M.   S. K. Sastri, for the petitioner.T.   V. R. Tatachary, for the respondents Nos. 1 and 2.M.   C.	 Setalvad Attorney-General for India, for  assistingthe Court.1957.  February 1. The judgment of Das C.J., Bhagwati, B. P.Sinha  and  S.	K.  Das	 JJ.  was  delivered  by  Das	C.J.Venkatarama Ayyar J. delivered a separate judgment.491DAS C.J.-This is an application for special leave to  appealfrom  the judgment passed on February 10, 1955 by  the	HighCourt  of  Andhra.  The suit out of which  this	 applicationarises was instituted on April 22, 1949, in the sub-court ofBapatla,  which	 was  then within the  jurisdiction  of	 theMadras	High  Court.  The judgment of the  trial  court	 waspassed	on  November  14, 1950, dismissing  the	 suit.	 Theplaintiff  appealed. 0 In October 1, 1953, the Andhra  Statewas formed and a new High Court was established under a.  28of  The	 Andhra	 State	Act, 1953 (Act	XXX  of	 1953),	 andapparently the appeal stood transferred to the High Court ofAndhra	under the provisions of s. 38 of the same  Act.	  OnMarch 4, 1955, the High Court of Andhra accepted the appeal,reversed the decree of the trial court and decreed the suit.The  application  for  leave to appeal	to  this  Court	 wasdismissed  on the ground, inter alia, that the value of	 theproperty  was  only Rs. 11,400 and did not come	 up  to	 theamount	of Rs. 20,000.	In this application  the  petitionercontends  that	the judgment being one of reversal  and	 thevalue  being above Rs. 10,000, he was entitled, as a  matterof  right,  to come up to this Court on appeal and  as	thatright  has been denied to him by the High Court, this  Courtshould,	 in  exercise of its discretion, grant	him  specialleave  to  appeal  to  this Court  under  Art.	136  of	 theConstitution.It  will  be  convenient  at this  stage  to  refer  to	 thestatutory  provisions  relating	 to appeal  from  any  finaljudgment,  decree  or order of a High Court in	India  to  asuperior court.	 This was regulated by the provisions of theLetters	 Patent	 of each particular High.  Court.'  It	willsuffice	 for our present purpose to refer to cl. 39  of	 theLetters	 Patent,  1865 relating to the High  Courts  of	 thethree  Presidency towns.  Under that clause an appeal  couldbe taken to His Majesty in Council from any final  judgment,decree	or  order  of the High Court made on  appeal  or  inexercise  of its original jurisdiction by a majority of	 thefull  number  of  Judges of the said High Court	 or  of	 anyDivision  Court provided, in either case, the sum or  matterat issue was of the amount or value of not less than  10,000rupees or that492such  judgment,	 decree	 or  order  involved,  directly	  orindirectly, some claim, demand or question to or  respectingproperty  amounting  to or' of the value of  not  less	than10,000	rupees or from any other final judgment,  decree  ororder  made either on appeal or otherwise as aforesaid	whenthe  said High Court should declare that the case was a	 fitone for appeal to His Majesty in Council.  The	requirementsto  be fulfilled for appeal to His Majesty in  Council	werealso  set  out	in  ss. 109 and 110 of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure,  1908.  The Government of India Act, 1.935 by  s.200  established a Federal Court for India.  Section 204  ofthat  Act  gave original jurisdiction to the  Federal  Courtwith  respect  to certain matters.   Section  205  conferredappellate  jurisdiction	 on  the  Federal  Court  from	 anyjudgment,  decree or final order of a High Court in  BritishIndia  if the High Court certified that the case involved  asubstantial question of law as to the interpretation of thatAct  or any Order in Council made thereunder and  prohibiteddirect	appeal	to  His Majesty in Council  either  with  orwithout	 special  leave in those matters.  When	 the  IndianIndependence  Act, 1947 was passed by Parliament  it  becamenecessary  to enlarge the jurisdiction of the Federal  Courtto  enable  the	 Federal Court to  entertain  appeals  whichpreviously went to His Majesty in Council.  For that purposewas enacted the Federal Court (Enlargement of  Jurisdiction)Act,  1947,  being  Act I of 1948.  Section 3  of  that	 Actprovided that as from the appointed day, i.e., from February1,  1948, an appeal would lie to the Federal Court from	 anyjudgment to which the Act applied without the special  leaveof the.	 Federal Court, if an appeal could have been broughtto  His Majesty in Council under the provisions of the	Codeof Civil Procedure, 1908 or of any  other law immediately inforce after the appointed day and with the special leave  ofthe  Federal  Court  in any other case and  that  no  directappeal	would lie to His Majesty in Council either  with  orwithout special leave from any such judgment.  "Judgment  towhich  this Act applied" was defined by s. 2(b)	 as  meaningany  judgment, decree or final 'order of a High Court  in  acivil, case493from  which a direct appeal could have been brought  to	 HisMajesty in Council, either with or without special leave, ifthat Act had not, been passed.	By s. 4 all proceedings	 andsteps taken in, and orders made and certificates granted by,a High Court. in connection with an appeal to His Majesty inCouncil, unless the records had been transmitted, were to bedeemed to be proceedings and steps taken and orders made andcertificates granted in connection with an appeal from	thatjudgment  to  the Federal Court under the Act and  would  beconcluded, or as the case may be, have effect,	accordingly.Under  s. 5 every application to His Majesty in Council	 forspecial	 leave	to appeal from a judgment to which  the	 Actapplied	 remaining  undisposed	of  immediately	 before	 theappointed  day	would on that day stand transferred  to	 theFederal Court by virtue of the Act and would be disposed  ofby that Court as if it had been an application duly made  tothat  Court  for  special  leave to  appeal  from  the	saidjudgment.   This  was  followed by the	Abolition  of  PrivyCouncil	 Jurisdiction Act, 1949 (Act V of 1949),  which	 waspassed	by the Constituent Assembly in September,  1949	 andcame  into force on October 10, 1949, which was referred  toas the 'appointed day'.	 Section 2 provided that as from the'appointed day the jurisdiction of His Majesty in Council toentertain  appeals and petitions from or in respect  of	 anyjudgment,  decree  or order of any court or  tribunal  otherthan  the  Federal  Court  within  the	territory  of  Indiaincluding  appeals  and	 petitions in  respect	of  criminalmatters whether such jurisdiction was exercisable by  virtueof  His	 Majesty's prerogatives or  otherwise  would  cease.Section	 5  conferred  corresponding  jurisdiction  on	 theFederal	 Court, that is to say, as from the  'appointed	 daythe  Federal  Court  was  authorised,  in  addition  to	 thejurisdiction conferred on it by the Government of India Act,1935  and  the Federal Court (Enlargement  of  Jurisdiction)Act,  1947, to have the same jurisdiction to  entertain	 anddispose	 of Indian appeals and petitions as His	 Majesty  inCouncil	 had  by  virtue of His	 Majesty's  prerogatives  orotherwise  immediately	before	the  'appointed	 day'.	 Allproceedings in respect of any494Indian	 appeal	 pending  before  His  Majesty	in   Councilimmediately before the appointed day' were by s. 6 to  standtransferred to the Federal Court and were to be disposed  ofby it in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred on it bythe Act.It  will be recalled that the suit out of which the  presentpetition arises was filed on April 22, 1949.  The petitionercontends  that	as from the date of the institution  of	 thesuit  he  acquired a vested right to appeal to	the  FederalCourt  which  has since then been replaced  by	the  SupremeCourt.	 In support of this contention he relies on  certainjudicial decisions to which reference may now be made.The leading case on the subject relied on by the  petitioneris  Colonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v.  Irving(1).	  Inthat  case  the	 Collector of Customs acting  under  an	 Actcalled	the Excise Tariff Act, 1902 required the  appellantsto pay pound 20,100 excise duty on 6,700 tons of sugar.	 Theappellants disputed the claim.	So they deposited the 'moneywith the Collector and then brought an action in the SupremeCourt of Queensland against the Collector for recovering thesum  so	 deposited.  The writ in the action  was  issued  onOctober	 25,  1902.  At the date of the institution  of	 theaction	the Order in Council of June 30, 1860, gave a  rightof appeal to His Majesty in Council from the judgment of theSupreme	 Court.	 A special case having been stated  for	 theopinion of the Full Court, that Court on September 4,  1903,gave  judgment	for  the Collector.   In  the  meantime	 theJudiciary  Act,	 1903 had been passed and  it  received	 theroyal  assent  on August 25, 1903, that is to say  about  10days before the judgment was delivered by the Supreme Court.By s. 38 the jurisdiction of the High Court of Australia' incertain	  specified  matters  was  made	 exclusive  of	 thejurisdiction  of the several Courts of the States and by  s.39  it	was made exclusive in all other	 matters  except  astherein provided.  Sub-section 2 of s. 39 provided that	 theseveral Courts of the States would be invested with  Federaljurisdiction  in  all matters above mentioned  except  thosespecified in s. 38, subject to certain(1)  [1905] A.C. 369,  495conditions  and	 restrictions, one of which was	 that  everydecision  of  a	 Court	of  a  State  from  which,  at	 theestablishment  of  the Commonwealth, an appeal	lay  to	 theQueen  in Council, should be final and conclusive except  sofar  as an appeal might be brought to the High	Court.	 Theresult of this Act was that Her Majesty in Council ceased tobe a Court of Appeal from the decision of the Supreme  Courtand  the only appeal from the Supreme Court under  that	 Actlay  to the High Court of Australia.  The Supreme  Court  ofQueensland having granted leave to the appellants under	 theOrder in Council of 1860 the appellants filed the appeal  inthe  Privy Council.  The respondent filed a petition  beforethe Privy Council praying that the appeal might be dismissedwith  costs  on the ground that the right of appeal  to	 HisMajesty in Council given by the Order in Council of June 30,1860, under which the leave had been granted, had been takenaway  by  the Judiciary Act, 1903 and that the	only  appealfrom  a decision of the Supreme Court of Queensland  lay  tothe High Court of Australia.  On behalf of the appellants itwas  contended	that the provisions of	the  Judiciary	Act,1903, on which the respondent relied, were not retrospectiveso  as to defeat a right in existence at the time  when	 theAct received the royal assent.	Their Lordships of the PrivyCouncil dismissed the respondent's petition and observed  asfollows:-"  As regards the general principles applicable to the	casethere  was  no	controversy.  On the one hand,	it  was	 notdisputed  that	if  the matter in question be  a  matter  ofprocedure  only, the petition is well founded, On the  otherhand,  if  it  be more than a matter  of  procedure,  if  ittouches	 a right in existence at the passing of the Act,  itwas  conceded  that,  in  accordance with  a  long  line  ofauthorities  extending	from the time of Lord  Coke  to	 thepresent	 day, the appellants would be entitled	to  succeed.The Judiciary Act is not retrospective by express  enactmentor by necessary intendment.  And therefore the only questionis, was the appeal to Hi& Majesty in Council a right  vestedin the appellants at the date of the passing of the Act,  orwas it a mere matter of procedure ? It seems to their496Lordships  that	 the question does not admit of	 doubt.	  Todeprive	 a  suitor  in a pending action of an  appeal  to  asuperior  tribunal  which belonged to him as of right  is  avery   different  thing	 from  regulating   procedure.	  Inprinciple   their  Lordships  see  no	difference   betweenabolishing an appeal altogether and transferring the  appealto a new tribunal.  In either case there is an	interferencewith  existing	rights	contrary to  the  wellknown  generalprinciple   that  statutes  are	 not  to  be  held  to	 actretrospectively	 unless a clear intention to that effect  ismanifested."This  proposition  of  law has been  firmly  established  inEnglish jurisprudence and this decision is accepted as soundand  cited with approval in leading text books.	 As will  bepresently seen, it has been followed and applied in numerousdecisions  in  England	and India  and	its  correctness  orauthority  has	not been questioned by any  of	the  learnedcounsel appearing before us on the present occasion.The principle of the above decision was applied in India  byJenkins C.J.in Nana bin Aba v. Skeku bin Andu (1) and  bythe  Privy  Council itself in Delhi Cloth and General  MillsCo.Ltd.	 v. Income Tax Commissioner, Delhi (1).	 In  DelhiCloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Income Tax Commissioner,Delhi  (supra) two assessment orders were made, one on	June12, 1923, and the other on March 23, 1924.  In each case thesum  in dispute exceeded Rs. 10,000.  At the request of	 theassessee  two cases were stated by the Commissioner  to	 theHigh  Court under s. 66 of the Indian Income Tax  Act.	 TheHigh  Court  affirmed the decisions of the  Commissioner  inJanuary,  1926.	 The petitioner applied for leave to  appealto  the	 Privy Council.	 On April 1, 1926, came	 the  IndianIncome	Tax  Amendment Act, 1926 which added s. 66A  to	 theIndian	Income	Tax Act which gave a right of  appeal.	 Thelearned	 Judges of the High Court were of opinion  that	 thepetitioners had a right of    appeal   to  His	Majesty	  inCouncil provided they could in	   effect bring their  caseswithin the requirements of a. 109  (c) of the Code of  CivilProcedure but not otherwise.  The High Court dealt with	 theapplications for(1)  [1908] I.L.R. 32 Bombay 337.(2)  [1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 421; I.L.R.9  Lah. 284.497certificates  on that footing but dismissed them and  as  itrefused to certify that the case was a fit one for appeal toHis  Majesty  in Council, the company applied to  the  PrivyCouncil	 for special leave to appeal from the two orders  ofthe High Court passed in January, 1926.	 It will be  noticedthat in January, 1926 when the orders were made by the	HighCourt  under s. 66, s. 66A was not in the Act at all and  ithad  been held by the Privy Council in Tata Iron  and  SteelCompany	 Ltd. v. Chief Revenue Authority(1), that there	 wasno  right  of appeal from a judgment delivered by  the	HighCourt  under s. 66 of the Indian Income Tax Act.  -Thereforethe orders of the High Court were final when they were	madein January 1926.  Such was the position until April 1, 1926,when s. 66A was added to the Act.  The question was  whetherthis section destroyed the finality that had attached to theorders	when they were made and gave any right of appeal  atall from the orders of the High Court made before the Act of1926 came into force.  Their Lordships answered the questionas follows:" The principle which their Lordships must apply in  dealingwith this matter has been authoritatively enunciated by	 theBoard  in Colonial Sugar Refining -Co. v. Irving(1),  where,it  is	in  effect laid down that,  while  provisions  of  astatute	 dealing  merely  with	matters	 of  procedure	 mayproperly,    unless   that   construction    be	   textuallyinadmissible, have retrospective effect attributed to  them,provisions  which touch a right in existence at the  passingof the statute are not to be applied retrospectively in	 theabsence of express enactment or necessary intendment.  TheirLordships can have no doubt that provisions which if appliedretrospectively,  would deprive of their  existing  finalityorders which, when the statute came into force, were  final,are provisions which touch existing rights.  Accordingly, ifthe  section now in question is to apply to orders final  atthe  date  when it came into force, it must  be	 clearly  soprovided.   Their Lordships cannot find in the section	evenan  indication to that effect.	On the contrary, they  thinkthere is a clear(1) [1923] L.R. 50 I.A. 212.(2) [1905] A.C. 369.498suggestion that a judgment of the High Court referred to  insub-s. 2 is one which under sub-s. 1 has been. pronounced by" not less than two judges of the High Court ", a  conditionwhich  was  not itself operative, until the  entire  sectioncame into force.In their Lordships' judgment, therefore, the petitioners  inthese  cases  have  no statutory right	of  appeal  to.	 HisMajesty in Council.  Only by an exercise of the	 Prerogativeis either appeal admissible."The  question of finality of order was considered.  by	thisCourt in the case of Indira Sohanlal v. Custodian of EvacueeProperty,  Delhi  and others (1).  In that  case  the  factsshortly	 stated	 were as follows: On October 10,  1947,	 theappellant had arranged with a Pakistani for the exchange  ofcertain properties she left behind at Lahore at the time shemigrated to India after the partition for certain lands in avillage	 in the State of Delhi belonging to that  Pakistani.On   February  23,  1948,  the	appellant  applied  to	 theAdditional  Custodian, for confirmation of  the	 transactionunder s. 5-A of the East Punjab Evacuees' (Administration ofProperty) Act, 1947 as amended in 1948.	 Section 5-B of thatAct  provided  that if the original order under s.  5-A	 waspassed	by  an	Additional or Deputy  Custodian	 of  EvacueeProperty,  any person aggrieved by such order  might  appealwithin 60 days, from the date of the order to the  Custodianof  Evacuee  Property; and subject only to the	decision  onsuch  appeal, if any, the order passed by the  Assistant  orDeputy	Custodian would be final and conclusive.   For	somereason or other the appellant's application for confirmationwas  not taken up promptly, but was adjourned from  time  totime.	-In   the  meantime  the   East	  Punjab   Evacuees'(Administration	 of  Property)	Act, 1947  was	repealed  byordinances, which in their turn were eventually replaced  bythe  Administration of Evacuee Property Act,  1950  (CentralAct XXXI of 1950).  Section 27 (1) of the Act empowered	 theCustodian   General,  either  on,  his	own  motion  or	  onapplication  made  to him in this behalf, to  call  for	 therecord	of  any proceeding in which any	 district  judge  orCustodian had passed an(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1117.499order  for  the	 purpose of satisfying	himself	 as  to	 thelegality or propriety of any such order and to pass order inrelation  thereto as he thought fit.  In other words  s.  27(1) of the new Act gave a power of revision to the CustodianGeneral.   On  March  20,  1952,  the  Additional  Custodianacceded	 to  the appellant's application and  confirmed	 theexchange.   On May 59 19529 the appellant applied to be	 putin  possession.	 Thereupon a notice was issued under  s.  27(1)  of	 the Central Act XXXI %of 1950 to the  appellant  toshow  cause why the order of the Additional Custodian  datedMarch  20, 1952, should not be set aside.  On May 20,  1953,the  Custodian	General passed an order	 setting  aside	 theorder of confirmation passed by the Additional Custodian  onthe  ground, inter alia, that notice had not been served  onall parties interested and directed the Custodian to  decidethe   case  on	notice	to  all	 parties  interested.	 Thepetitioner  obtained special leave to appeal to	 this  Courtagainst	 the  order  of the  Custodian	General	 of  EvacueeProperty.  At the hearing of the appeal the learned  counselfor. the appellant contended that according to the principle,laid down by the, Privy Council in Colonial Sugar  RefiningCo.  Ltd.  V. Irving (supra), she had, on the filing of	 herapplication  for  confirmation in 1948,	 acquired  a  vestedright to have it determined under. s. 5-A with the attributeof  finality and conclusiveness attaching to the order	whenmade just as a litigant acquired a vested right of appeal onthe  commencement of his suit or proceeding and that  vestedright  could not be taken away by subsequent statute  exceptby  express  provision or by necessary-	 intendment.   Therewas,  according	 to the appellant, nothing in s. 27  of	 theAdministration	of Evacuee Property Act, 1950  (Central	 ActXXXI  of 1950), which expressly or by  necessary  intendmenttook  away that vested right.  It will' be noticed  that  atthe  date.  of the commencement of the Central Act  XXXI  of1950 no order had actually been made to which the  attributeof finality could attach.  In these circumstances this Courtrepelled the contention of the appellant with the  followingwords:500"  However this may be, it appears to be clear that while  aright  of  appeal  in  respect	of  a  pending	action	 mayconceivably be treated as a substantive right vesting in thelitigant on the commencement of the action-though we do	 notso  decide-no  such vested right to obtain  a  determinationwith  the attribute of finality can be predicated in  favourof a litigant on the institution of the action.	 By the veryterms  of  section  5-B	 of East Punjab	 Act  XIV  of  1947,finality attaches to it on the making of the order.  Even ifthere  be,, in law, any such right at all as the right to  adetermination  with the attribute of finality, it can in  nosense  be  a vested or accrued right.  It  does	 not  accrueuntil  the  determination is in fact made,  when  alone	 theright  to  finality becomes an existing right  as  in  DelhiCloth and General Mills Co.  Ltd. v. Income Tax Commissioner(1).   We are, therefore, of the opinion that the  principleof Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving (supra) cannotbe  invoked in support of a case of the kind we are  dealingwith."It is clear from the above passage that this Court, on	thatoccasion,  left open the question whether a right of  appealin  respect  of	 a pending action could	 be,  treated  as  asubstantive   right   vesting  in  the	 litigant   on	 thecommencement   of  the	action.	  It   becomes,	  necessary,therefore, to go into that question in detail.In  Ramakrishna Iyer v. Sithai Ammal (2 ), a  magistrate  onAugust 4, 1923, granted sanction under s. 195 of the Code ofCriminal  Procedure  to	 prosecute the	the  respondent	 forhaving	preferred  a  false charge of  dacoity	against	 theappellant.   Sub-section  6 of s. 195, as it stood  at	thatdate, provided that the sanction might be revoked or grantedby  any authority to which the authority giving or  refusingit  was subject.  Pursuant to the sanction  the	 complainantfiled  a  petition of complaint.  On August  22,  1923,	 therespondent  applied  for revocation of the sanction  but  noorder was made.	 On September 1, 1923, s. 195 of the Code(1)  (1927) I.L.R. 9 Lahore 284.(2)  (1925) I.L.R. 48 Mad. 620 (F.B).501of Criminal Procedure was amended.  The relevant portion  ofthe amended section was in these terms:" 195. (1) No court shall take cognisance----(a).........................................(b)  of	 any offence punishable under any of  the  followingsections  of the same Code, namely, sections 193, 194,	195,196,  199, 200, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 210, 211  and	228,when  such offence is alleged to have been committed in,  orin  relation to, any proceeding in any court, except on	 thecomplaint in writing of such court or of some other court towhich such court is subordinate; orAfter the amendment came into force the respondent  receivednotice	of the prosecution already instituted  against	her.In  1924  she filed another petition for revocation  of	 thesanction.   The	 magistrate  revoked,  the  sanction.	 Thecomplainant  petitioner	 filed this  petition  against	thisorder  of  revocation  of  sanction.   In  dismissing	thisapplication  a Full Bench of five Judges of the Madras	HighCourt presided over by Courts Trotter C. J. referred to	 thedecision of the Privy Council in Colonial Sugar Refining Co.Ltd.  v.  Irving  (supra) and quoted  the  passage  in	LordMacnaghten's judgment as laying down the principle in  clearlanguage.   At page 629 Coutts Trotter C. J., who  deliveredthe judgment of the Full Bench, stated as follows :-"The question we have to decide is whether this was a  rightof  entering  the Superior Court and invoking  its  aid	 andinterposition to redress the error of the Magistrate's Courtbelow  and therefore it seems to us that, on  principle	 andthose  very weighty authorities. we ought to hold that	thisis not a case of procedure but it is a case of a real  rightto  invoke  the aid of a higher tribunal.  We  are  also  ofopinion	 that  those  principles  are  really.involved	 andcarried	 out  by section 6 of the General Clauses Act  X  of1887."It will be noticed that even the peremptory language of	 theamended s. 195 quoted above was not regarded502as  containing	anything  which expressly  or  by  necessaryintendment  took  away	the right which had  vested  in	 therespondent  under old s. 195(6) when the sanction  had	beengranted against her on August 4,.1953, to have it revoked.In  Daivanayaka Reddiyar and two others v. Renukambal  Ammal(1),  a	 suit was filed on March 21, 1921, by  a  widow	 formaintenance.   It was valued at rupees 14,600  according  tothe  provisions of the Court Fees Act (VII of 1870) then  inforce.	 Under s. 13 of that Court Fees Act appeals  lay  tothe district court or the High Court according as the  valueof  the subject matter of the suit was below or over  rupees5,000.,	 On April 18, 1922, the Madras Court Fees  AmendmentAct  (V of 1922) came into force.  Section 7(2) of  the	 oldCourt  Fees Act (VII of 1870) was amended.  The trial  courtdecreed	 the suit on March 13, 1923.  On April 19, 1923	 thedefendants filed an appeal in the High Court.  In the appealthe court fee was paid on Rs. 2,633-5-4 calculated accordingto the valuation in terms of the amended Act.  An  objectionwas  taken  on behalf of the plaintiff-respondent  that	 theappeal	did not lie to the High Court but should  have	beenfiled in the district court.  The contention was that thoughthe suit was valued at more than Rs. 5,000 under the law  inforce at the time of filing of the plaint, yet the valuationof  the suit according to the amended Court Fees Act at	 thetime the appeal was presented would have been less than	 Rs.3,000  and,  therefore, the appeal, to the  High  Court	 wasincompetent.   The  following question was referred  to	 theFull Bench:" Does the appeal against the decree in a suit in which	 thevaluation  of  the relief claimed. according to the  law  inforce at the date of the plaint was more than Rs. 5,000	 butat  the time of the appeal is less than Rs. 5,000  owing  tothe  amendment of the Court Fees Act, lie to the High  Courtor to the District CourtThe  Full  Bench consisting of three Judges  held  that	 theappeal had properly been brought before the High court. The Full Bench observed:(1)[1927]     I.L.R. 50 Mad.  857.503"  It is argued that this section does not confer any  rightof  appear to the High Court in definite classes  of  suits,but  that the right of appeal is merely given to  the  Courtauthorised  to hear appeals and the question of whether	 theCourt is the District Court or the High Court depends on thevaluation. of the suit at the time of filing the appeal.  Itis   difficult	to  treat  this	 argument  as  in  any	 waydistinguishing the case from that of Colonial Sugar RefiningCompany	 v. Irving (1), for, in both cases there  was,	whenthe suit was filed, a vested right of appeal to a particulartribunal,  which  is taken away by a  subsequent  enactment.According to the argument, when the right is taken away by asubsequent  alteration in a mere fiscal enactment, the	caseis  not	 the same as when the right depends  on	 substantivelaw.   This  is untenable.  It Has been held  by  the  PrivyCouncil	 that this cannot be done and we are bound  by	thatgeneral expression of the law and must follow it."Bala  Prasad and others v. Shyam Behari Lal and	 others	 (2)which  was  a decision by a single judge  who  followed	 thePrivy	Council	 decision  does	 not  require  any   furtherconsideration  and we may pass on to Ram Singha	 v.  ShankarDayal  (3) which is very important.  In the  last  mentionedcase  a suit for rent was filed on July 12, 1926.   At	thattime the North-Western Provinces Tenancy Act, 1901 (U.P. ActII  of 1901) was in force.  Section 177 of that Act  gave  aright of appeal from the decision of the Assistant Collectorto  the	 District  Judge when the amount  or  value  of	 thesubject	 matter of suit exceeded Rs. 100.  On  September  7,1926,  Agra Tenancy Act (U.  P. Act III of 1926)  came	intoforce.	It repealed the old Act of 1901.  Section 240 of thenew  Act reproduced s. 175 of the old Act providing that  noappeal	would  lie from any decree' or order passed  by	 anycourt  under this Act except as provided in this  Act.	 Thematerial portion of s. 242, which corresponded to s. 177  ofthe old Act provided as follows:-"242  (1).  An appeal shall lie to the 'district judge	fromthe decree of an assistant collector of the first(1) [1905] A.C. 369.	      (3) (1928) I.L.R. 50 All.	 965(F.B.).(2) (1928) 26 A.L.J.4o6.65504class  or  of a collector in any of the	 suits	included  ingroup A of the Fourth Schedule in which-(a)  the  amount  or  value of	the  subject-matter  exceedsrupees two hundred; or(b)...........................................................On  December  23, 1926 i.e., after the	 new Act  came	intoforce, the suit was decreed by the assistant collector.	 Thedefendant  presented an appeal to the district	judge.	 Thedistrict  judge	 returned  the memorandum  of  appeal.	 Thedefendant  presented the memorandum before the Collector  ofEtawah	and  that  officer was of opinion  that	 he  had  nojurisdiction  to entertain the appeal and referred the	caseto the High Court under s. 207 of the Agra Tenancy Act.	 Thereference came up before a Bench of the Allahabad High Courtwhich referred the following question to a Full Bench:"  Whether  the filing of an appeal is governed by  the	 lawobtaining at the date of the institution of a suit or by thelaw  that may prevail at the date of the decision of it,  orat the date of the filing of the appeal ?"It will be noticed that the question definitely called for adecision  as  to  when the right of  appeal  vested  in	 thelitigant.  A Full Bench of three Judges presided over by Mr.Justice	 Sulaiman, then Acting Chief Justice  of  Allahabad,expressed the following opinion:" In our opinion the point is concluded by the pronouncementof  their  Lordships  of the Privy Council in  the  case  ofColonial Sugar Refining Company Ltd. v. Irving (1).  In thatcase,  ordinarily  an appeal lay to their Lordships  of	 thePrivy Council from an order of the Supreme Court.  While thematter was pending in that court, the law was amended so  asto  allow an appeal to the High Court.	Their  Lordships  ofthe  Privy Council held that the new Act could	not  deprivethe party of his right to appeal to the Privy Council.	LordMacnaghten remarked at page 372: ' To deprive a suitor in  apending	 action	 of an appeal to a superior  tribunal  whichbelonged  to him as of right is a very different thing	fromregulating procedure'."(1)  [1905] A.C. 369.505"That  principle  was reaffirmed by their Lordships  it	 thecase of Delhi Cloth and General Mills Co. Ltd. v. Income TaxCommissioner(1).  The principle has been followed by a	FullBench  of the Madras High Court in the case  of	 DaivanayagaReddiar v. Renukamba, Ammal(2).	 Dalal J. has taken the sameview in the case of Bala Prasad v. Shyam Behari Lal(3).	 "The Full Bench answered the question as follows:" Our answer to the reference is that the right to appeal tothe  court  of the District Judge was governed	by  the	 lawprevailing  at the date of the institution of the suit,	 andnot  by the law that prevailed at the date of its  decision,or at the date of the filing of the appeal."It  will be noticed that the language of s. 242 (1)  of	 thenew  Act which came into force before the decree was  passedwas  not regarded as containing anything which expressly  orby necessary intendment took away the right of appeal  whichvested in the parties on the date of the institution of	 thesuit on the mere ground that the decree had been made  afterthe  new  amendment  came into	force.	 This  case  clearlyestablishes that the right of appeal vests in the parties atthe  date of the suit and is governed by the law  prevailingat that time and the date of the decree or of the filing  Ofthe appeal does not affect this right unless some subsequentenactment  takes away this right expressly or  by  necessaryintendment.   It also establishes that the wide language  ofs. 242(1) of the new Act, namely "An appeal shall lie to theDistrict   Judge   from	  the	decree	 of   an   AssistantCollector........  could  not be construed as  covering	 thedecree	passed	after  the date of the new -Act	 in  a	suitinstituted before its date.A  Full Bench of the Lahore High Court adopted	and  appliedthe  Privy Council decision in the case of Kirpa  Singh,  v.Ajaipal	 Singh and others (4).	It was regarded	 as  settledthat the right of appeal was not a mere matter of  procedurebut  was a vested' right which inhered in a party  from	 thecommencement  of the action in the court of  first  instanceand that such right(1)  [1927] I.L.R. 9 Lah. 284.(2)  [1927] I.L.R. 50 Mad. 857.(3)  [1928] 26 A.L.J. 406.(4)  [1928] I.L.R. 10 Lah. 165 (F.B.).506could not be taken away except by an express provision or bynecessary implication.The  decision of a Special Bench of the Calcutta High  Courtin Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin (1) is very instructive.  There asuit  was filed in the munsiff's court at Alipur on  October7,  1920, for a declaration that the defendant had no  rightto  use	 a certain pathway and for  a  permanent  injunctionagainst	 the defendant.	 On July 17, 1924, the	trial  courtdismissed the suit.  On July 17, 1926, the subordinate judgedismissed  the plaintiff's appeal.  On October 4, 1926,	 theplaintiff filed a second appeal in the High Court.  At	thattime el. 15 of the Letters Patent permitted a further appealto the High Court from the judgment of a single judge of theHigh  Court, except in certain cases which are not  materialfor  our  present purpose, without any leave of	 the  singlejudge.	 During the pendency of the second appeal cl. 15  ofthe  Letters Patent was amended and the amendment came	intoforce  on  January  14, 1928.  The  amended  Letters  Patentimposed	 a condition that a further appeal would lie only  "where  the judge who passed the judgment declares  that	 thecase  is a fit one for appeal." It is well-known  that	thisamendment was made in order to reduce the number of  LettersPatent Appeals from the judgments of single judges which hadassumed alarming proportions in every High Court.  After theLetters Patent were amended the second appeal was  dismissedby  the single judge on April 4, 1928.	The  learned  singlejudge  declined	 to grant leave under  the  amended  LettersPatent.	  On 30, 1928, the appellant filed an appeal on	 thestrength of el. 15 of the Letters Patent as it stood  beforethe   amendment	 and  obtained	a  rule	 calling  upon	 therespondent  to	show  cause why his  appeal  should  not  beaccepted  and  registered without the leave  of	 the  singlejudge.	The contention of the appellant was that the amendedclause	could  not be applied to his appeal, for  to  do  sowould  be  to apply, it retrospectively and to	impair	and,indeed,	 to  defeat  his substantive  right  which  was	 in'existence  prior  to  the  date	 of  the  amendment:.	 Theappellant claimed that on October 7, 1920, when(1)  (1929) I.L.R. 56 Cal. 512.507the  suit  was	filed,	he had vested in  him  by  the	thenexisting law, i.e., cl. 15 of the Letters Patent as it	thenstood,	a substantive right of appeal from the	decision  ofthe single judge and that an intention to interfere with it,to clog it with a new condition, or to impair or imperil it,could  not be presumed, unless it was clearly manifested  byexpress words or necessary intendment.	Reliance was  placedon the judgment of Garth C.J. in Runjit Singh's case (1) andon  other Indian decisions to the effect that the  suit	 andall appeals from the decree made therein were to be regardedas  one legal proceeding on the principle stated by West  J.in  Chinto Joshi v. Krishnaji Narayan (2) namely  "that	 thelegal  pursuit of a remedy, suit, appeal and second  appeal,are really but steps in a series of proceediros connected byan intrinsic unity".  Rankin C.J. delivering the judgment ofthe  Special Bench consisting of five learned judges of	 theCalcutta High Court, adverted to the difficulty in supposing" that the amendment made by the Letters Patent, which	cameinto  force  in January last, was made with any	 other	viewthan  to  obviate unreasonable,	 or  unreasonably  prolongedlitigation : or to suppose that the date of the suit has anyrational  bearing upon that object or as distinguishing	 onecase  from another for this purpose." He was conscious	thatit might be " thought difficult to arrive at an opinion thatthe  reform introduced is reasonable and necessary but	thatit should in effect be postponed for years." He put the onuson the appellant by saying that the 66 whole weight of theseconsiderations	has to be borne by the applicant's  argumentthat  the Letters Patent as they stood on the  7th  October,1920,  conferred upon him at that date an  existing  right."'.In  spite  of	 these	difficulties  the  Full	 Bench	 wasconstrained  to come to the decision that the applicant	 haddischarged that onus., At page 518 the learned Chief Justiceobserved:"Now the reasoning of the Judicial Committee in the ColonialSugar Refining Company's case (3) is a Conclusive authority,to show that rights of appeal are not matters of  procedure;and that the right to enter the(1)  (1878) I.L.R. 3 Cal. 662 at page 665.(2)  (1879) I.L.R. 3 Bom. 214 at page 216.(3) [1905] A.C. 369.508superior  court is, for the present purpose deemed to  ariseto  a  litigant before any decision has been  given  by	 theinferior  court.  If the latter proposition be	accepted,  Ican  see  no  intermediate  point at  which  to	 resist	 theconclusion  that. the right arises at the date of the  suit.It does not arise as regards Court B alone, when the suit isinstituted in Court A and as regards Court C when the  firstappeal is lodged before Court B. A " present right of Appear"  (cf.	 section 154 of the Code of Civil  Procedure)  is  adifferent matter.  The principle must, I think, involve thatan admixture of different systems is not to be applied to  asingle case.  It is quite true that the suitor cannot  enterCourt  C without going through Court B, but neither  can  heenter  Court  B till Court A has given	its  decision.	 Theright  must be a right to take the matter to Court C in	 duecourse of the existing law."Further	 down  the  Special.   Bench  posed  before  them  aquestion  :  "Whether  it  is  any  necessary  part  of	 theintendment  of the Letters Patent that they  should  operateupon  appeals  arising out of suits instituted	before	14thJanuary, 1928, when such appeals were heard after that	date?"  In spite of the wide language of the amended cl.  15  ofthe  Letters Patent, namely, that an appeal shall  lie	fromthe judgment of single judge only where the judge who passedthe  judgment  declared	 that the case was  a  fit  one	 forappeal, the Special Bench found nothing in that language  toindicate that it applied to a decree passed after the amend-ment came into force or that it took away the vested  right.The Special Bench after saying that_"As there is-nothing  inthe  language  of  the	Letters	 Patent	 to  evidence	thisintention,  we must enquire whether it is manifest from	 thesubject-matter"-went on to deal with the subject-matter	 andobserved:" Now in this case, I cannot say that it appears to me	thatthere  is very much material upon which to base	 a  definiteconclusion  that  the intention was to bring  pending  suitsunder the new system.  The long postponement of a  desirablereform	may have been thought wise, and it would  hardly  becorrect	 for a court of law to proceed merely upon  its	 ownopinion509as  to the degree of respect to which the right of  a  thirdappeal	is entitled.  In this aspect the present  case	may,reasonably be thought less strong than the case of Bourke v.Nutt  (1894)  1	 Q.B.  725, where  a  similar  argument	 wasultimately  negatived.	If bankrupts may continue to  becomemembers	 of school boards, I cannot say that  litigants	 maynot  continue  to have a third appeal  unless  it  otherwiseappears that this construction of the Letters Patent is	 notreasonably  possible.	Far  be it from	 me  to	 distinguishbetween	 such  forms of excess or to divide such  claims  totoleration."In re Vasudeva Samiar (1) was also concerned with the effectof the amended el. 15 of the Letters Patent on a preexistingright  of  appeal.  In that case the suit was filed  in	 theDistrict Munsif's Court on July 30, 1919.  The second appealwas  filed in the High Court on July 15, 1924.	The  amendedel.  15 of the Letters Patent came into force in  Madras  onJanuary	 31, 1928.  On February 9, 1929, the  second  appealwas  disposed of.  An appeal was filed without any leave  ofthe  learned  single  judge.  The  High	 Court	office	tookobjection to the maintainability of the appeal by reason  ofthe  amended Letters Patent and the case was  placed  beforethe Full Bench consisting of five judges under the orders ofCoutts Trotter C. J. for the determination of the  question.Coutts Trotter C. J. entirely concurred in the reasoning  ofRankin	C. J. and had no answer to it.	He adverted  to	 theargument that the result would be that cl. 15 of the amendedLetters	 Patent will remain a dead letter for many years  tocome and repelled it in the following sentence: " The resultis regrettable, because it makes the amended Letters Patent,which were doubtless brought into being to relieve the heavyburden	of  Second  Appeals, which in this  Court  have	 nowreached	 the  startling	 figure of 5,000  cases,  unable  toeffect any substantial relief to us for five years." For themoment	we pass over his observation in connection with	 thecase of Canada Cement Co. v. East Montreal (Town of) (2) andwill  refer  to	 it later on.  The  point  for	our  presentpurpose is that the Full Bench did not(1) (1928) I.L.R. 52 Mad. 361.(2) [1922] 1 A.C. 249.510think  that  the  opinion  expressed in	 that  case  was  inconflict  with	the  earlier  decision	in  Colonial  SugarRefining   Co.	 Ltd.	v.   Irving   (supra),	 which	 wasauthoritatively adopted and reconfirmed in the later case ofDelhi  Cloth  and  General  Mills Co.  Ltd.  v.	 Income	 TaxCommissioner,  Delhi  (supra).	The  learned  Chief  Justiceconcluded his judgment with the following words:"  We  must therefore hold, however  reluctantly,  that	 theinstitution of the suit carries with it the implication thatall  appeals then in force are preserved to it	through	 therest  of  its  career, unless  the  legislation	 has  eitherabolished  the	Court  to which an appeal then	lay  or	 hasexpressly  -or	by  necessary intendment  given	 the  Act  aretrospective effect.  We agree with the Calcutta High Courtthat the words of the amended Letters Patent do not admit ofsuch an interpretation."The  principle	laid down by the Privy Council	in  ColonialSugar  Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving (supra) was applied by  aFull  Bench  of	 the Nagpur High  Court	 in  Radhakishan  v.Shridhar (1).The  doctrine  laid down by the Privy Council  ill  ColonialSugar  Refining	 Co. Ltd. v. Irving (supra)  has  also	beenapplied by the courts in India to cases where the subsequentlegislation did not take away the entire right of appeal butimposed certain onerous conditions on such right.  The	caseof  Nagendra Nath Bose v. Mon Mohan Singh (2) is a  case  ofthat  type.  In that case the plaintiff instituted the	suitfor rent valued at Rs. 1,306-15-0 and obtained a decree.  Inexecution  of that decree the defaulting tenure was sold  onNovember 20, 1928, for Rs. 1,600.  On December 19, 1928,  anapplication was made under 0. 21, r. 90 of the Code of CivilProcedure  by  the petitioner who wag one  of  the  judgmentdebtors for setting aside the sale.  That application havingbeen dismissed for default of his appearance, the petitionerpreferred  an  appeal to the District  Judge,  Hooghly,	 whorefused	 to admit the appeal on the ground that the  amount,recoverable in(i)  I.L.R. 1950 Nag. 532 (F.B.).(2)  34 C.W.N. 1009; A.I.R. (1931) Cal. 100.511execution  of the decree had not been deposited as  requiredby  the proviso to s. 174 (c) of the Bengal Tenancy  Act  asamended	 by an amending Act of 1928.  The contention of	 thepetitioner  was that the amended provision, which came	intoforce  on February 21, 1929, could not affect his  right  ofappeal from the decision on an application made on  December19, 1928, for setting aside the sale.  Mitter J. said:"We  think the contention of the petitioner is	well-foundedand  must prevail.  That a right of appeal is a	 substantiveright  cannot now be seriously disputed.  It is not  a	merematter	of procedure.  Prior to the amendment of 1928  therewas an appeal against an order refusing to set aside a	sale(for  that is the effect also where the application  to	 setaside	the  sale  is  dismissed  for  default)	 under	 theprovisions  of	Order  43, rule (1), of the  Code  of  CivilProcedure.  That right was unhampered by any restriction  ofthe kind now imposed by section 174 (5), proviso.  The Courtwas  bound to admit the appeal whether	appellant  depositedthe  amount recoverable in execution of the decree  or	not.By  requiring such deposit as a condition precedent  to	 theadmission  of the appeal, a new restriction has been put  onthe right of appeal, the admission of which is now hedged inwith  a condition.  There can be no doubt that the right  ofappeal	has  been affected by the new provision and  in	 theabsence of an express enactment this amendment cannot  applyto  proceedings pending at the date when the new  amendment,came into force.  It is true that the appeal was filed afterthe   Act  came	 into  force,  but  that   circumstance	  isimmaterial-for	the date to be looked into for this  purposeis  the	 date of the original  proceeding  which  eventuallyculminated in the appeal."That  decision	was  approved by a Bench of  this  Court  inHoosein	 Kasam	Dada  (India) Ltd. v. The  State  of  MadhyaPradesh	 (1).	In  that  case on  November  28,  1947,	 theappellant  submitted a return to the Sales Tax Officer.	  Atthat time s. 22(1) of the Central Provinces and Berar  SalesTax Act, 1947 provided(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 987.66512that  no  appeal against the order of assessment  should  beentertained  unless it was shown that such amount of tax  asthe appellant might admit to be due from him had been  paid.Pending the assessment on the appellant's return the Act wasamended	 on  November  25, 1949, so as to  provide  that  noappeal would be admitted unless such appeal was	 accompaniedby satisfactory proof of payment of tax in respect of  whichthe  appeal had been preferred.	 The Assistant	Commissionerto  whom  the return was transferred for  disposal  made  anassessment  on	April 8, 1950.	The appellant  preferred  anappeal on May 10, 1950, without depositing the amount of taxin  respect of which he had appealed.  The Board of  Revenuewas of opinion that s. 22 (1) as amended applied to the caseas  the assessment was made, and the appeal  was  preferred,after  the  amendment  came into  force,  and  rejected	 theappeal.	 The Bench of this Court held, following the leadingPrivy  Council	decision  and some of  the  other  decisionsreferred to above, that the right of appeal was a matter  ofsubstantive right and not merely a matter of procedure, thatthis  right  became vested in a party when  the	 proceedingswere first initiated and that such right could not be  takenaway  except by express enactment or  necessary	 intendment.Accordingly  it	 was held that the appellant  had  a  vestedright  of  appeal  when	 the  assessment  proceedings	wereinitiated in 1947, that his right of appeal was governed  bythe  law as it existed on that date, that the  amendment  of1950 could not be regarded as a mere alteration in procedureor  an	alteration regulating the exercise of the  right  ofappeal,	 if it whittled down the right itself, and  that  ithad  no retrospective effect as the amended Act of 1950	 didnot   expressly	  or  by  necessary   intendment   give	  itrestrospective	effect and the appeal could not,  therefore,be  rejected for non-payment of tax in respect of which	 theappeal was preferred.The  case  of  Ganpat Rai Hiralal  v.  Aggarwal	 Chamber  ofCommerce  Ltd.	(1), is also instructive.   There  were	 twowinding up proceedings regarding two companies,(1)  [1953] S.C.R. 752,513namely,	 the Marwari Chamber of Commerce Ltd.  and  AggarwalChamber	 of Commerce Ltd.  The Official	 Liquidator  settledthe list of contributories in both cases.  On June 4,  1946,payment	 order for Rs. 24,005-7-3 was made by the  court  inthe  case of Marwari Chamber of Commerce Ltd.  At that	timePatiala	 States	 Judicature  Firman of 1999  was  in  force.Under  s.  44 of that Firman a certificate  of	fitness	 wasrequired  for  an appeal from a judgment of a  single  judgeonly if the judgment, decree or order sought to be  appealedfrom   was   made  in  the  exercise  of   Civil   AppellateJurisdiction.	After the payment order had been made  PepsuOrdinance  (X of 2005) was promulgated.	 Section 52  of	 theOrdinance  required a certificate of fitness for  appeal  inall  cases,  including the winding up  cases.	On  February2,1950,	 an application was made in respect of	the  MarwariChamber of Commerce Ltd. under s. 152 of the Civil ProcedureCode for amendment of the payment order by substituting	 Rs.21,805-7-3 for Rs. 24,005-7-3.	On March 16, 1950, the aboveapplication was dismissed by the judge, who refused to grantthe  certificate of fitness.  An appeal against	 this  orderrefusing  to amend the payment order was filed	without	 anycertificate.  On May 1, 1950, that appeal was dismissed	 forwant of the necessary certificate.  An appeal was brought tothis  Court on certificate of fitness granted by  the  PepsuHigh  Court.   In the case of Aggarwal Chamber	of  CommerceLtd. the payment order was made on January 18, 1949, by	 theLiquidation  Judge.   On  February 19,1949,  an	 appeal	 waspreferred  to  the  High Court.	 At that  time	the  PatialaStates	Judicature Firman 1999 was in force.  Then came	 thePepsu  Ordinance  (X  of  2005).   The	High  Court   havingdismissed  the	appeal a further appeal was  filed  in	thisCourt  on certificate of fitness granted by the High  Court.The  question for decision was whether the appellant  had  avested right of appeal to this Court in either of two cases.This  Court  dismissed	the appeal in  connection  with	 TheMarwari Chamber of Commerce Ltd., not on the ground that theappellant  had no vested right of appeal but, on the  groundthat the application for amendment, which was filed514on  February 2, 1950, was an independent proceeding  and  asthat proceeding was instituted after the Pepsu Ordinance  (xof  2005), came into operation, the vested right  of  appealarising	 out  of  that	proceeding  was	 governed  by	thatOrdinance and a certificate was necessary.  It was  observedthat  there was no warrant for the view that  the  amendmentpetition  was  a  continuation of  the	suit  or  proceedingthereunder,  that  it was in the nature	 of  an	 independentproceeding   though  connected	with  the  order  of   whichamendment  'was	 sought	 and  that  such  a  proceeding	 wasgoverned by the law prevailing on its date, which admittedlywas  Pepsu Ordinance (X of 2005), which provided,  under  s.52,  for  a certificate.  The court,  however,	allowed	 theappeal	in the matter of Aggarwal Chamber of  Commerce	Ltd.following  the principle laid down in the case	of  ColonialSugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving (supra), for in that	casethere was no new proceeding and the right of appeal  arisingout  of	 the proceeding resulting in the payment  order	 hadvested	at the commencement of those proceedings  which	 wasprior to the date when the Pepsu Ordinance (X of 2005)	cameinto force.Similar	 principle  has also been adopted  in  cases,  wherecourt  fees  were increased by subsequent amendment  of	 theCourt Fees Act.	 Reference may be made to the cases of R. M.Seshadri  v.  Province	Madras (1); In	re  Reference  undersection 5 of Court Fees Act(2); Sawaldas Madhavdas v..	ArtiCotton	Mills Ltd. (3).	 There are certain  other  decisionswhich also adopted the same principle but reference will  bemade  to  them later on in connection with the	question  ofconstruction of Art. 133 of the Constitution.From  the  decisions cited above  the  following  principlesclearly emerge:(i)  That  the legal pursuit of a remedy, suit,	 appeal	 andsecond	 appeal	 are  really  but  steps  in  a	 series	  ofproceedings  all connected by an intrinsic unity and are  tobe regarded as one legal proceeding.(ii) The  right of appeal is not a mere matter of  procedurebut is a substantive right.(1)  A.I.R. 1954 Mad. 543.(2)  I.L.R. 1955 Bom. 530.(3)  A.I.R. 1955 Bom. 332; 57 Bom.  L.R. 304.515(iii)	  The  institution of the suit carries with  it	 theimplication  that  all rights of appeal then  in  force	 arepreserved,  to	the  parties thereto till the  rest  of	 thecareer of the suit.(iv) The right of appeal is a vested right and such a  rightto  enter  the superior court accrues to  the  litigant	 andexists	as  on	and  from the date  the	 lis  commences	 andalthough  it  may  be actually exercised  when	the  adversejudgment  is pronounced such right is to be governed by	 thelaw prevailing at the date of the institution of the suit orproceeding  and not by the law that prevails at the date  ofits decision or at the date of the filing of the appeal.(v)  This vested right of appeal can be taken away only by asubsequent  enactment,	if it so provides  expressly  or  bynecessary intendment and not otherwise.In  the case before us the suit was instituted on April	 22,1949,  and  on the principle established  by  the  decisionsreferred to above the right of appeal vested in the  partiesthereto at that date and is to be governed by the law as  itprevailed  on  that date, that is to say, on that  date	 theparties	 acquired  the right, if unsuccessful, to go  up  inappeal	from  the sub-court to the High Court and  from	 theHigh  Court  to the Federal Court. under the  Federal  Court(Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act, 1947 read with cl. 39  ofthe Letters Patent and ss. 109 and 110 of the Code of  CivilProcedure  provided. the conditions thereof were  satisfied.The question for our consideration is whether that right hasbeen taken away expressly or. by necessary intendment by anysubsequent  enactment.	The respondents to  the	 applicationmaintain that it has been so taken away by the provisions ofour Constitution.In construing the articles of the Constitution we must	bearin mind certain cardinal rules of construction.	 It has beensaid  in  Hough	 v.  Windus  (1),that  "statutes  should  beinterpreted,  if possible, so as to respect  vested  right."The  golden rule of construction is that, in the absence  ofanything  in  the  enactment to ,show that  it	is  to	haveretrospective operation, it cannot(1)  [1884]12 Q.B.D. 224 at 237.516be  so construed as to have the effect of altering  the	 lawapplicable to a claim in litigation at the time when the Actwas passed (1).	 The following observation of Rankin C.J. inSadar Ali v. Dalimuddin (supra) at page 520 is also appositeand helpful: "Unless the contrary can be shown the provisionwhich  takes away the jurisdiction is itself subject to	 theimplied	 saving of the litigant's right." In Janardan  Reddyv.  The State (2) Kania C.J. in delivering the	judgment  ofthe  Court  observed  that  our	 Constitution  is  generallyspeaking  prospective  in its operation and is not  to	haveretroactive   operation	 in  the  absence  of  any   expressprovision to that effect.  The same principle was reiteratedin  Keshavan  Madhava Menon v. The State of Bombay  (3)	 andfinally	 in Dajisaheb Mane and Others v. Shankar Rao  VithalRao  (4) to which reference will be made in  greater  detailhereafter.In the next place we must take into account the	 surroundingcircumstances that existed at the time when our Constitutionmakers	framed the Constitution and for which provision	 hadto be made by them.  In construing the Articles relating  tothe  appellate	jurisdiction  of this Court it	is  well  toremember  the several categories of persons who were at	 thedate of the Constitution, interested in the right of  appealfrom judgments, decrees or final orders of a High Court to asuperior  court	 in one way or another.	  There	 were  sevencategories of persons so interested, namely-(1)  Those who were aggrieved by a judgment of a High  Courtin what was British India passed before the commencement  ofthe Constitution in a civil proceeding arising out of a suitor  proceeding instituted before the Constitution  and	who.had  preferred an appeal from such judgment to	the  FederalCourt or whose appeal from such judgment to the Privy  Coun-cil  had  stood transferred to the Federal Court  and  whoseappeal	was pending in such court immediately prior  to	 thecommencement of the Constitution;(1)  Leeds  and County Bank Ltd. v. Walker (1883) 11  Q.B.D.84 at page 91 Moon v. Durden (1848) 2 Ex. 22; 76 R.R. 479 atP. 495.(2)  [1950] S.C.R. 940 at pp. 946-947.(3)  [1951] S.C.R. 228.(4)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 872 at pp. 876-877.517(ii)Those who were aggrieved by a judgment passed by such  aHigh  Court before the commencement of the  Constitution  insuch  civil proceeding arising out of a suit  or  proceedinginstituted.in  the  court  of  first  instance	before	 theConstitution, but in which only, an application for leave toappeal	to  the	 Federal  Court	 had  been  made  and	suchapplication was pending before the Federal Court immediatelybefore	the commencement of the Constitution but  no  appealhad  actually been filed or was pending before	the  FederalCourt at that date;(iii)Those who were aggrieved by a judgment passed by such aHigh  Court  before the Constitution in a  civil  proceedingarising out of a suit or proceeding instituted in the  courtof first instance before the Constitution and in respect  ofwhich  no  application for leave to appeal  to	the  FederalCourt had been made but the time for making such applicationhad not expired at the commencement of the Constitution;(iv)Those who may be aggrieved by a judgment passed by	sucha  High Court after the date of the Constitution in a  civilproceeding arising out of a suit or proceeding filed in	 thecourt of first instance before the Constitution;(v)  Those who were aggrieved by a judgment passed by a HighCourt  in a Princely State before the Constitution  and	 whohad  appealed  from such judgement to the Privy	 Council  ofthat  State  which' was pending at the commencement  of	 theConstitution;(vi)Those  who were aggrieved by such a judgment of  a	HighCourt of a Princely State and who had not actually filed  anappeal	but  whose application for leave to  appeal  to	 thePrivy  Council of that State was pending before	 such  PrivyCouncil	  immediately	before	the  commencement   of	 theConstitution; and lastly(vii)Those  who may be aggrieved by the judgment of  a	HighCourt	in   the  territory  of	 India	passed	 after	 thecommencement  of  the  Constitution in	a  civil  proceedingarising	 out  of a suit or proceeding filed also  after	 theConstitution would come into force.The Constitution makers knew about these several  categoriesof persons and further that, according to a518series	of  decisions  of the highest courts,  it  had	beenfirmly	established that the right of appeal to the  FederalCourt vested in a litigant at the date of the institution ofthe  suit or proceeding in the court of first  instance	 andnot on the date of the passing of the judgment by the  trialcourt  or the High Court or of the filing of the  appeal  inthe  High  Court or the Federal Court.	In other  words	 theConstitution  makers  knew that the right of appeal  to	 theFederal	 Court had already vested in persons falling  withincategories (i) to (iv) at the date of the institution in thecourt  of first instance of the suit or proceeding to  whichthey  were parties, no matter when the judgment of the	HighCourt was passed or was likely to be passed in future.	 TheConstitution  makers  also knew that this vested  right	 wasgoverned  by  cl.  39 of the Letters Patent  read  with	 theFederal	 Court (Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act,  1947	 andthe  Abolition of Privy Council Jurisdiction  Act,'1949	 andss.  109  and  110  of the Code	 of  Civil  Procedure.	 TheConstitution makers were also aware of the rights of personswho  fell  within  categories  (v)  and	 (vi).	 With	fullknowledge of all. these rights the Constitution makers	madesuch  provision as they thought fit.  The  question  is,-hasthe  Constitution,  expressly or  by  necessary	 intendment,taken  away  this vested right of appeal from any  of  thesecategories  of	persons?   This	 leads	us  to	examine	 therelevant  provisions  of  the Constitution  and	 other	lawsbearing on the question.Article	  395  of  the	Constitution  repealed	the   IndianIndependence Act, 1947 and the Government of India Act, 1935together  with all enactments amending or supplementing	 thelatter Act, but expressly kept alive the Abolition of  PrivyCouncil	  Jurisdiction	Act,  1949.   The  repeal   of	 theGovernment  of	India  Act, 1935  necessarily  involved	 theabolition  of  the Federal Court which was the	creature  ofthat  Act.   In its place the Constitution by Art.  124	 hasestablished  this Court-, which by Art. 129 is made a  courtof record with all the powers of such a court, including thepower to punish for contempt of itself.	 Article 131 confersoriginal jurisdiction on this Court  in certain disputes519therein mentioned.  Appellate jurisdiction of this Court  isdealt with in Art. 132 and the following Article Article 132confers jurisdiction on this Court to entertain appeals fromjudgments,  decrees or final orders of a High Court  in	 theterritory  of India, whether in civil or criminal  or  otherproceeding,  if	 the  High Court  certifies  that  the	caseinvolves   a   substantial  question  of  law  as   to	 theinterpretation of the Constitution.  The relevant portion ofArt. 133 runs as follows:133(1).	  An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from	 anyjudgment,  decree or final order in a civil proceeding of  aHigh  Court  in	 the territory of India in  the	 High  Courtcertifies-(a)  that the amount or value of the subject. matter of	 thedispute in the court of first instance and still in  disputeon appeal was and is not less than twenty thousand rupees orsuch  other  sum  as  may be specified	in  that  behalf  byParliament by law; or(b)  that  the	judgment,  decree or  final  order  involveddirectly  or  indirectly some claim or	question  respectingproperty of the like amount or value; or(c)  that  the case is a fit one for appeal to	the  SupremeCourt;	and,  where  the judgment,  decree  or	final  orderappealed from affirms the decision of the court	 immediatelybelow in any case other than a case referred to in subclause(c),  if  the High Court further certifies that	 the  appealinvolves some substantial question of law.Article	 134 (1) (c) authorises this Court to  entertain  anappeal	from  any  judgment, final order or  sentence  in  acriminal  proceeding  of a High Court in  the  territory  ofIndia,	if the High Court issues the requisite	certificate.Article 135 is in the terms following:135.	  Until	 Parliament by law otherwise  provides,	 theSupreme	 Court shall also have jurisdiction and powers	withrespect to any matter to which the provisions of article 133or  article 134 do not apply if jurisdiction and  powers  inrelation  to  that matter were exercisable  by	the  FederalCourt	immediately   before  the   commencement   of	thisConstitution under any existing law.67520Article 136 authorises this Court in its discretion to	rantspecial	 leave	to  appeal in  certain	cases.	 Article  37confers	 power	of review upon this Court to review  as	 ownjudgments.   Provision	is made for the enlargement  of	 thejurisdiction or conferment of additional or ancillary powersunder  Arts.  138 to 140.  Article 372 of  the	Constitutionprovides  for the continuance in force of the existing	lawsand for their adaptation.  The relevant portions of Art. 372are as follows:372.(1)	 Notwithstanding the repeal by this Constitution  ofthe enactments referred to in article 395 but subject to theother provisions of this Constitution, all the law in  forcein   the   territory  of  India	  immediately	before	 thecommencement  of this Constitution shall continue  in  forcetherein until altered or repealed or amended by a  competentLegislature or other competent authority.(2)For the purpose of bringing the provisions of any law  inforce  in  the	territory  of India  into  accord  with	 theprovisions of this Constitution, the President may by  ordermake such adaptations and modifications of such law, whetherby  way	 of  repeal or amendment, as  may  be  necessary  orexpedient,  and	 provide that the law shall,  as  from	such-date as may be specified in the order, have effect  subjectto  the adaptations and modifications so made, and any	suchadaptation  or modification shall not be questioned  in	 anycourt of law.In  exercise of the powers conferred on him by Art.  372(2),the  President	promulgated the Adaptation  of	Laws  Order,1950,	which  came  into  force  simultaneously  with	 theConstitution  on  January 26, 1950.  In the  first  scheduledealing	 with the Central Acts are set out  the	 adaptationsmade in the Code of Civil Procedure.  It is to be noted thatss.  109  and 110 of the Code of Civil	Procedure  were	 notdeleted altogether but were modified only.  The sections  asadapted run as follows:109.  Subject to the provisions in Chapter IV of Part  V  ofthe  Constitution and such rules as may, from time to  time,be made by the Supreme Court regarding521appeals	 from  the  Courts of India, and  to  the  provisionhereinafter  contained, an appeal shall lie to	the  SupremeCourt-(a)  from  any	judgment, decree or final  order  passed  onappeal	by  a  High Court or by any  other  Court  of  finalappellate jurisdiction;(b)  from  any judgment, decree or final  order passed by  aHigh Court in the exercise of original civil jurisdiction  ;and(c)from	 any  judgment, decree or order, when the  case,  ashereinafter provided is certifide to be a fit one for appealto the supreme Court.110.	  In each of the cases mentioned in clauses (a) and(b)  , of s. 109, the amount or value of the  subject-matterof  the suit in the Court of first instance must  be  twentythousand  rupees or upwards, and the amount or value of	 thesubject-matter	in  dispute on appeal to the  Supreme  Courtmust be the same sum on upwards,or  the	 judgment,  decree  or	final  order  must  involve,directly  or  indirectly,  some	 claim	or  question  to  orrespecting  property of like amount or value, and where	 theJudgment.  decree or final order appealed from	affirms	 thedecision  of the Court immediately below the  Court  passingsuch  judgment,	 decree	 or final  order,  the	appeal	mustinvolve some substantial question of law.This  adaptation, however, was subject to the provisions  ofcl. 20 of the Order itself, which runs as follows :-20.  Nothing  in  this	Order  shall  affect  the   previousoperation  of, or anything duly done or suffered under,	 anyexisting  law,	or  any	 right,	 privilege,  obligation	  orliability  already acquired, accrued, or incurred under	 anysuch law, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment  incurredill respect of an offence already committed against any suchlaw.The result of the foregoing provisions 'may here be  shortlysummarised.   The  Constitution	 by Art.  395  repealed	 theGovernment  of India Act and thereby abolished	the  FederalCourt.	It, however, continued522he Abolition of Privy Council Jurisdiction Act, 1949,  whichdirected  that	the Federal Court in addition to  he  powersconferred  on  it  by  the  Federal  Court  (Enlargenent  ofJurisdiction) Act, 1947, would have all the appelate  powersexercised  by the Privy Council.  Though the  Federal  Court(Enlargement  of  Jurisdiction)	 Act,  1947,  being  an	 Actamending or supplementing the Government of India Act, 1935,was repealed, yet notwithstanding such repeal the provisionsof  the	 Act  were continued in force  under  Art.  372	 (1)subject	 to the other provisions of the	 Constitution.	 TheAdaptation  order  modified ss. 109 and 110 of the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure, inter alia, by raising the valuation	fromRs.  10,000  to Rs. 20,000, but that provision did  not,  byvirtue	of  clause  20	of  the	 Order,	 affect	 any  right,privilege, obligation or liability already acquired, accruedor incurred under any existing law.  The true implication ofthe  above  provisions	is that the  pre-existing  right  ofappeal	to the Federal Court continues to exist and the	 oldlaw,  which created that right of appeal also  continues  toexist  to  support the continuation of that  right  and	 theFederal	 Court	having been abolished the Supreme  Court  issubstituted  for the Federal Court as the machinery for	 thepurpose	 of giving effect to the exercise of that  right  ofappeal.	  As the old law continues to exist for the  purposeof  supporting the pre-existing right of appeal the old	 lawmust  govern the exercise and enforcement of that  right  ofappeal.	 The continuance of the old law, however, is subjectto the other provisions of the Constitution.Turning to the Constitution it will appear that Art. 374 (2)provides   for	the  removal  of  all  suits,  appeals	 andproceedings, civil or criminal, pending in the Federal Courtat  the commencement of this Constitution to this Court	 andinvests	 this Court with jurisdiction to hear and  determinethe  same.   This saves the vested right of  appeal  of	 thepersons	 falling  within categories (i) and  (ii)  mentionedabove.	It is conceded that Art. 135 saves the vested  rightof  appeal of persons falling within category  (iii),  i.e.,persons who are dissatisfied with the judgments passed by  aHigh523Court  in what was British India before the commencement  ofthe Constitution, in civil proceedings arising out of  suitsor  proceedings	 instituted  also before that  date  and  inrespect of which no application for leave to appeal had beenmade  before the Federal Court prior to the commencement  ofthe   Constitution.    Article	 374   (4)   abolishes	 thejurisdiction of the authority which functioned as the  PrivyCouncil in the Princely States which under the	Constitutionbecame	Part B States and provided for the transfer  of	 allappeals and other proceedings pending before such  authorityat the commencement of the Constitution to the Supreme Courtto be disposed of by it.  This saved the right of appeal  ofpersons	 falling  within categories (v) and  (vi).   Personsfalling	 within category (vii) may clearly avail  themselvesof Art: 133.  The only question that remains is whether	 theright  of  appeal from the judgment of a High  Court  passedafter  the  date of the Constitution in a  civil  proceedingarising	 out of a suit or proceeding instituted	 before	 theConstitution  which  had vested in  persons  falling  withincategory  (iv) is to, be governed by Art. 133 or by the	 oldlaw under Art. 135.In  Radha  Krishna  v. Shridhar (supra),  Nandalal  v.	HiraLal(1), Mahant Sidha Kamal Nayan v. Bira Naik(2),  Ramaswamiv. Ramanathan(3), Daji Saheb v. Shankarrao(4), Mt.  Murtu v.Paras  Ram (5) and Bhagwantrao v. Viswasrao(6), it has	beenheld that Art. 133 of the Constitution is not  retrospectiveand  that  the	vested right of appeal is  governed  by	 theconditions  laid down in the Code of Civil  Procedure  whichwere in force previous to the adaptation there. of and	thisCourt was by Art. 135 substituted for the Federal Court, andinvested  with jurisdiction to entertain the  appeals  underthat article.  In Daji Saheb v. Shankarrao (supra) the suit,the  value of which was between Rs. 11,000 and	Rs.  13,000,was  dismissed by the trial court on December 20, 1946,	 andthe  High Court reversed the decree of the trial  court	 andpassed the decree in favour of the plaintiff on November 8,(1)  I.L.R. 1950 Nag. 830(2)  I.L.R. 1950 Cut. 663.(3)  I.L.R. 1951 Mad. 125.(4)  I.L.R. 1952 Bom. 906.(5)  A.I.R. 1952 Him. 14.(6)  I.L.R. 1953 Nag. 822.5241949.  The Bombay High Court having granted a certificate offitness,  the  case came up before this Court  and  will  befound  reported as Daji Saheb Mane v. Shankarrao (1).  On  aquestion of the maintainability of the appeal being  raised,this  Court hold that Art. 133 did not apply because (i)  itrelated expressly to appeals against any judgment, decree orfinal  order  in a-civil proceeding of a High Court  in	 theterritory of India and (ii) on the date of the decree of theHigh Court the defendant had a vested right of appeal to theFederal	 Court	and on January 25, 1950,  a  certificate  offitness	 to  appeal was bound to be granted.  It  was.	heldthat the appeal to the Supreme Court was competent by virtueof  the	 provisions of Art. 135 of the Constitution  as	 thejurisdiction and powers in relation to the matter in disputewere exercisable by the Federal Court immediately before thecommencement  of  the Constitution under  an  existing	law,inasmuch  as  the Federal Court had jurisdiction  under	 theCode of Civil Procedure to entertain and hear appeals.	froma  decree of a High Court which reversed the  lower  Court'sdecree	concerning  property of the value of Rs.  10,000  orupwards.   As regards the argument urged by  the  respondentthat Art. 133 applied,this Court observed:-" if we accede to, the argument urged by the respondent,  weshall be shutting out altogether a large number of  appeals,where  the parties had an automatic right to go	 before	 theFederal Court before the Constitution and which we must holdwas  taken away from them for no fault of their own,  merelybecause	 the Supreme Court came into existence in  place  ofthe Federal Court.  An interpretation or construction of theprovisions  of the Constitution which would lead to  such  aresult should be avoided, unless inevitable."On the other hand there are two decisions of the Madras HighCourt  which  run  counter  to	the  decisions	hereinbeforereferred  to and which may now be considered.  In  RamaswamiChettiar  V. The Official Receiver (2), a Division Bench  ofthe  Madras High Court held that the expression "  matter  "under Art. 135(1) [1935] 2 S.C.R. 872.(2) A.I.R. 1951 Mad. 1951.525excluded  civil	 and  criminal	proceedings  and  should  beunderstood  as meaning a matter which is neither  civil	 norcriminal  and,	therefore, by applying the  maxim  expressiounius  est exclusio alterius, the word "matter" in Art.	 135should	be  deemed  to	exclude	 both  civil  and   criminalproceedings  and  the hardship imposed on  the	litigant  byadopting  this construction was mitigated by  conferment  ofdiscretionary  power on this Court  to grant  special  leaveunder  Art. 136.  On this construction litigants,  who	comewithin	categories  (iii) and (iv) will all have  to  dependupon the discretionary powers of this Court to grant specialleave  under Art. 136.	This will be a poor  consolation  tothose litigants, for they will have no appeal as a matter ofright, which they formerly possessed under the Code of CivilProcedure but will have to seek a favour entirely  dependenton, the discretion of this Court.  We do not think any otherHigh  Court  has  gone	to this	 length	 and,  indeed,	thisdecision has been expressly dissented from in Bhagwantrao v.Viswasrao  (supra)  and we are not prepared to	accept	thatMadras decision as correct.In Veeranna v. China Venkanna (1) it has been held by a FullBench  of three judges of the Madras High Court that if	 thejudgment is delivered in a civil proceeding of a High  Court-after	the commencement of the Constitution then no  matterwhether the civil proceeding was instituted before or  afterthe  commencement  of the Constitution,	 Art.  133(1)  wouldapply  directly and if that article applied Art.  135  wouldnot,  for that article would apply only to matters to  whichArts.  133  and 134 did not apply,  and	 consequently  therewould be no right of appeal from such judgment to this Courtif  the	 value	of the subject-matter of the  suit  and	 theappeal	was not Rs. 20,000 or upwards.	This case  has	beenfollowed  in Prabirendra Mohan v. Berhampore Bank Ltd.	(2),Ram Sahai v. Ram Sewak (3), Tajammul Husain v. Mst.   QaisarJahan  Begam (4) and The Indian Trade and General  InsuranceCo.  Ltd.  v. Raj Mal Pahar Chand (5).	 It  is,  therefore,necessary to(1)  I.L.R. 1953 Mad. 1079.(2)  A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 289.(3)  A.I.R. 1956 All. 321.(4)  A.I.R. 1956 All. 638.(5)  A.I.R. 1956 Punj. 228.526examine	 in  detail the decision in the	 Madras	 Full  Benchcase.In that case the suit was filed in 1945 in the court of	 thesubordinate Judge of Kakinada for partition and	 possession.The   subordinate   Judge  passed  a   preliminary   decree.Eventually  the High Court reversed the decision  on  August23,  1951.   The value of the suit was over Rs.	 10,000	 butbelow  Rs.  20,000.  The learned  judges  distinguished	 theprevious cases hereinbefore referred to which were cited  bycounsel	 in support of the maintainability of the appeal  onthe  ground, inter alia, that in those cases  the  judgmentsappealed  from	were passed by the High	 Courts	 before	 thecommencement  of  the Constitution.  It was  fully  concededthat  the  institution	of  a  suit  carried  with  it	 theimplication  that  all	-appeals  then	in  force  would  bepreserved to the parties to the suit throughout the rest  ofthe career of the suit as was laid down by the Full Bench offive  Judges  of that Court.  But it was  pointed  out	thatthere  were two exceptions to the application of that  rule,namely, (i) when by competent enactment such right of appealwas  taken  away expressly or impliedly	 with  retrospectiveeffect and (ii) when the court to which an appeal then, thatis,  at	 the  commencement  of	the  suit,  would  lie	 wasabolished.  Reference was made to the case of Canada  CementCo. Ltd. v. East Montreal (Town of) (supra) and the  passagefrom  the judgment of Coutts Trotter C.J. in In re  VasudevaSamiar	(supra)	 was quoted as an excellent summary  of	 theeffect of that decision.  The conclusion was thusexpressed at page 1086:"Now,  the suit in the present case was instituted in  1945.On  that  date	the  final Court of  Appeal  was  the  PrivyCouncil.  Strictly speaking, if any right was vested in	 theparties to the suit on the date of its institution, it was aright to finally appeal to the Privy Council.  But from	 1stFebruary, 1948, such a right was expressly abolished.  Therewas  no	 doubt	no  abolition  of  a  Court  as	 such,	 butsubstantially that was the result.  From that day the  PrivyCouncil ceased to be a Court of Appeal from the Indian	HighCourts.	 Such right as was vested in the parties to the suitto appeal527to the Privy Council, therefore, came to an end on that day.Instead,  the  parties	may  be said  to  have	obtained  analternative  right of appeal to the Federal Court  But	whatmust  not  be  overlooked is that this is  not	because	 theparties	 had a vested right, but because the  Federal  Court(Enlargement of Jurisdiction) Act specially provided for thesubstitution of the final appellate forum (vide section 3 ofthat Act)."Again at page 1087 it was said:-"it follows, therefore, that the utmost that can be said  infavour	of  the petitioner is that  immediately	 before	 thecoming	into  force  of the Constitution  the  existing	 lawconferred  a right on parties in this case to appeal to	 theFederal Court.	When this Court was abolished by the  cominginto  force  of the Constitution the question is,  were	 anyrights substituted for the rights which existed at the	time? Article 374 (2) specially provides for all suits,  appealsand  proceedings, civil or criminal, pending in the  FederalCourt at the commencement of the Constitution.	These  shallstand  removed	to the Supreme Court and the  Supreme  Courtshall have jurisdiction to hear and determine the same.	 Butwe  find no provision made as regard proceedings by  way  ofappeal or otherwise not pending in the Federal Court at	 thecommencement of the Constitution which might have been takenin  the Federal Court or in the High Court in respect of  anappeal	to the Federal Court.  There is no indication as  towhat  is  to happen to such proceedings which had  not	com-menced by the date of the Constitution."It is quite obvious from the passages quoted above that	 thejudgment  of this Madras Full Bench proceeds on the  footingthat  the vested right of appeal was to go to  a  particularcourt, that that court having been abolished the old  vestedright  had come to an end, that a new court was	 establishedand  a	new right of appeal was given to that court  on	 newterms, that no provision had been made for filing appeals tothe  new court in cases where appeals could have been  filedto  the	 court which ceased to exist  and  that,  therefore,there  was no right to appeal to the new court in  spite  ofthe doctrine of the vested right.  In other words the Full68528Bench  apparently  thought that this case  fell	 within	 thesecond	exception mentioned by them, namely, that the  courtto  which the appeal lay at the date of the commencement  ofthe suit had been abolished and, therefore, the vested rightof appeal ceased to exist.  Support for this conclusion	 wasderived	 from the decision in the case of Canada Cement	 Co.Ltd. v. East Montreal (Town of) (supra).Now  turning  to the facts of that last	 mentioned  Canadiancase  we  find	that the judgment of the  Circuit  Court  ofMontreal  was  passed  on  January  5,	1921,  against	 theappellant.   The  appellant  appealed to  the  King's  Bench(Appeal	 Side) for the Province of Quebec.   The  respondentapplied	 for dismissal of the appeal on the ground  that  itwas  not maintainable.	On April 26, 1921, the King's  Bench(Appeal	 Side) held that no appeal lay and the	judgment  ofthe  Circuit,  Court  was final.   The	appellant  thereuponappealed  to the Privy Council.	 The respondent	 applied  tothe Privy Council to quash the appeal on the ground that theappeal	to the Privy Council was incompetent.  Three  pointswere  urged  before the Judicial Committee.  The  first	 wasthat  as the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court	was  derivedfrom  the Cities' and Towns' Act, 1909, all right of  appealmust  be  found in that Act and as no right  of	 appeal	 wasgiven by that Act no appeal lay.  This point was rejected bythe Judicial Committee on the ground that the power that wasgiven  to take proceedings to the Circuit Court	 under	art.5755  enabled these proceedings to be taken as part  of	 theordinary business of the court and the right of appeal	thatexisted from the judgment given by that court was applicableto  such  proceeding.  The second point urged was  that	 theCircuit	 Court was governed by the Civil Procedure Code	 andso  it had to be ascertained if that Code gave	any  appeal.Reference was made to the different sections of the Code andit was contended that no such right of appeal had been givenby  those  sections.   The Judicial  Committee	upheld	thispoint.	The last point which was raised is material for	 ourpurpose.   That was that by the Quebec Statute 10 Geo. 5  c.79 the whole of the sections of this Code of Civil Procedure529including those dealing with the Circuit Court and the rightof  appeal were declared to be replaced by other  provisionsand so far as the Circuit Court was concerned the provisionsas  to	appeal	were completely dropped	 out.	Section	 42,however, provided that the Court of King's Bench would	havejurisdiction  in all matters from all courts,  wherefrom  anappeal by law lay and s. 64 provided. that "unless otherwiseprovided by this Act, all cases, matters or things which, atthe  time of its coming into force, were within the  compet-ence of the Court of Review, shall be within the  competenceof  the	 Court	of King's Bench,  sitting  in  appeal."	 TheJudicial   Committee  accepted	this  contention  and	LordBuckmaster  who	 delivered  the	 judgment  of  the  JudicialCommittee observed as follows:-"Now  this appeal had not been brought when the statute	 waspassed,	 although the proceedings before the  Circuit  Courthad  been  instituted.	 Consequently  the  statutes  givingwhatever  right of appeal may have existed were replaced  bysections  which	 gave  none, and s. 64	of  the	 Act,  whichprovided that matters within the competence of the Court  ofReview should be subject to the Court of King's Bench,	mustbe regarded as qualified by the provision that the powers ofthe  Court  of Review with regard to the Circuit  Court	 hadbeen taken away, and consequently to that extent the statutehad otherwise provided'.  "It  is clear from the above passage that the reason why	 theappeal was held to be incompetent was not that the court  towhich  an appeal lay at the date of the institution  of	 thesuit had been abolished and, therefore, the right of  appealceased to exist nor that that court was abolished and a	 newcourt  was  set up in its place and  nothing  was  mentionedabout  the  vested right of appeal but that  the  new  courtwhich  took  the  place of the court  to  which	 the  appealoriginally lay was given jurisdiction in all cases "  unlessotherwise  provided  by this Act " and that  that  very	 Acthaving	declared  the whole of the sections of the  Code  inwhich  the  provisions	relating to the	 Circuit  Court	 andrights of appeal found place to be replaced by530other	provisions   and  those	 other	 provisions   havingcompletely dropped out the provisions relating to the appealfrom  the Circuit Court, it was held that the  statute	"hadotherwise provided In other words his case illustrates	thatthe  matter really came within the first  exception,  namelythat  the  vested  right  of  appeal  had  been	 taken	awayexpressly or by necessary intendment rather than within	 thesecond exception where the court to which the appeal lay hadbeen abolished simpliciter.  This case, therefore, can	giveno support to the conclusion of the Full Bench.Apart  from  what,  with respect, appears to  us  to  be  anerroneous  reading  of that Canadian case, the	judgment  ofthis  Madras  Full Bench seems to have been founded  on	 theidea that the Constitution simply brought about an abolitionof  the Federal Court simpliciter and consequently  the	 oldvested	right of appeal thereto ceased to exist and that  asno new right of appeal was given to the new court, i.e., theSupreme	 Court, no appeal lay to it.  If this  reasoning  ofthe Madras High Court were correct then with respect to	 thecase of Colonial Sugar Refining Co. Ltd. v. Irving  (supra),it  could be said, adapting the language used in the  MadrasFull  Bench  case and quoted above, that if  any  right	 wasvested	in  the	 parties  to the suit  on  the	day  of	 itsinstitution in the court of first instance it was a right offinal appeal only to the Privy Council, that though strictlyspeaking  there	 was no abolition of the  Privy	 Council  assuch,  yet substantially that was the result, for the  PrivyCouncil	 ceased to be a court of appeal from the  QueenslandSupreme	 Court and, therefore, such right as was  vested  inthe parties to the suit to appeal to the Privy Council	cameto  an	end  when the amendment came  into  force  and	thatinstead	 of that vested right the parties had  obtained	 thealternative  right of appeal to the High Court of  Australiaand, therefore, no appeal lay to the Privy Council.  If	 thereasoning  of  the Madras High Court were correct  then	 thePrivy  Council case of Colonial Sugar Refining Co.  Ltd.  v.Irving	(supra) must be held to have been  wrongly  decided.But such an argument has not been advanced531and, we apprehend, cannot for a moment be countenanced.	  Inthat  case the Privy Council enunciated a  principle  which,according  to  them,  was well established by  a  series  ofdecisions  going  back	to the time of Lord  Coke  and	thatprinciple has been adopted by Full Benches of almost all theHigh  Courts of India and has never been dissented  from  ordoubted.   It is now too late in the day to go back  upon  aprinciple  on the strength of which appeals have been  filedand allowed and rights of parties have been adjudicated uponand  titles  to properties have been declared  for  over  50years.	 If, therefore, we are to accept the correctness  ofthe principle laid down by the Privy Council, as we think wemust,  then the only question that remains and calls  for  adecision  is  whether the Constitution has expressly  or  bynecessary  intendment. taken away the right of appeal  whichvested in the parties at the date of the commencement of theproceedings in the court of first instance.It is said that Art. 133 of the Constitution has taken	awaythat  right.   This contention appears to be  untenable	 andopen  to serious objections.  There is nothing in  Art.	 133which  in  terms expressly take,% away the vested  right  ofappeal	from any judgment, decree or final order of  a	HighCourt passed in a civil proceeding arising out of a suit  orproceeding   instituted	 before	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution.	 Does  the  article,  then,   disclose	 anynecessary  intendment to that effect?  It is said that	thatarticle gives a right of appeal from any judgment, decree orfinal  order  of a High Court passed after the date  of	 theConstitution,  provided it satisfies the conditions  thereinmentioned  and this provision impliedly negatives the  rightof  appeal from judgments passed after the  Constitution  ifthe  conditions	 are  not  satisfied,  no  matter  when	 theproceedings  had  been	instituted in  the  court  of  firstinstance.   Article 133 only speaks of any judgment,  decreeor  final order of a high Court.  It does not say  judgment,decree	or  final  order  passed  after	 the   Constitution.Therefore,  when an application for leave to appeal  from  ajudgment,  decree  or final order of a High  Court  is	madeafter the532Constitution  then, at the date of the	application,  surelythe  judgment,	decree	or final  order	 passed	 before	 theConstitution can also , be described literally and correctlyas  a judgment, decree or final order of a High Court.	 Butit is said at once that the Constitution is prospective and,therefore, the judgment, decree or final order	contemplatedtherein can only be a judgment, decree or final order passedafter the Constitution.	 But if by reason of the theory thatthe  Constitution  is prospective we are to read  the  words"passed	 after the Commencement of the Constitution"  after.the words " judgment, decree or final order ", can there  beany  cogent  reason  why we may not also read  the  words  "arising out of a suit or proceeding instituted in the  courtof first instance after the commencement of the Constitution" after the words " civil proceedings of a High Court in theterritory  of India If the Constitution is prospective	withregard to the date of the judgment why should it not be alsoprospective  with regard to the institution of the  suit  orproceeding out of which the civil proceeding before the HighCourt arises?  To construe the language of Art. 133 to coverall  judgments, decrees or final orders made after the	dateof the commencement of the Constitution irrespective of	 thedate  of the institution of the proceedings in the court  ofthe  first  instance will be to run counter to	the  earlierdecisions referred to above.  The very wide language of	 theamended cl. 15 of the Letters Patent or of s. 242 (1) of theamended	 Agra Tenancy Act, 1926 and the other provisions  ofother enactments, e.g., the amended provisions of the  CourtFees Act were not construed to apply to judgments,  decrees,or final orders made after the respective dates of amendmentor   regarded  as  indicating  expressly  or  by   necessaryintendment,  that the vested right of appeal had been  takenaway.  The peremptory Words of the amended s. 22 (1) of	 theCentral	 Provinces  and Berar Sales Tax Act, 1947  were	 notconsidered  sufficient by this Court to take away the  rightof  appeal  which had vested in the assessee under  the	 oldsection	 which	was in force at the time  the  returns	wereriled.	It is erroneous, therefore, to533say  that the language of Art. 133 impliedly takes away	 theright of appeal.There  are,  moreover, deeper grounds of  objection  to	 theconstruction placed upon Art. 133 by this later Madras	FullBench  case we are considering.	 It overlooks the fact	thatthe  right  of appeal becomes vested in the parties  to	 thesuit at the date of the institution of the suit and the dateof the judgment or the date of the filing of the appeal	 hasnothing to do with it.	Therefore, a party to a suit, who isdissatisfied  with a judgment passed by the High Court in  acivil  proceeding arising out of a suit or proceeding  filedin the court of first instance before the Constitution,	 hasa  right of appeal which had accrued to him at the  date  ofthe  institution of the suit or proceeding in the  court  offirst instance according to the. law then in force and it isimmaterial  whether the judgment is passed before  or  afterthe  Constitution.  The right to go from court to  court  inappeal	is  the	 right	which  vests  at  the  date  of	 theinstitution  of	 the proceedings in the court of  the  firstinstance.   It is true, as pointed out by Rankin  C.J.	thatthe litigant cannot go from Court A to Court B or from CourtB  to Court C unless and until an adverse order actually  ismade  but  the right to go up to Court C vests, not  at	 thedate  of the adverse judgment or the date of the  filing  ofthe  appeal  but,  at the date of  the	institution  of	 theoriginal  proceedings.	If this is, as we apprehend  it	 is,-the correct view. then to construe Art. 133 as covering alljudgments,   decrees  and  final  orders  made	 after	 theConstitution  irrespective of the date of the initiation  ofthe  proceedings in the original court will be to take	awayor  impair  the	 vested	 right of  appeal  from	 a  judgmentconcerning  property or subject-matter of the value  of	 Rs.10,000	but  below  Rs.	 20,000 which  had  accrued  to	 theaggrieved   party  long	 before	 the  commencement  of	 theConstitution.	Such  a	 construction  plainly	and   surelyamounts	 to giving a retroactive operation to Art. 133,	 forso  construed the article will certainly destroy  the  rightwhich  was vested prior to the Constitution.  This  will  becontrary  to the canons of construction referred to  in	 theearlier part of this534judgment.   As	already stated, if the words  of  Art.	133,namely,	 "an appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from	 anyjudgment, decree or final order in a civil all proceeding ofa High Court" bring within their ambit judgments, decrees orfinal orders passed after the date of the Constitution, thenon a parity of reasoning the words in the amended cl. 15  ofthe  Letters  Patent that "an appeal shall lie to  the	saidHigh Court from a judgment of one judge" should have covereda  judgment  of one judge passed 'after the  amendment	cameinto  force.  But the Special Bench, of five judges  of	 theCalcutta High Court and the Full Bench of five judges of theMadras High Court did not regard that language as sufficientto cover the case of a judgment, which was passed after	 theamended	 cl. 15 of the Letters Patent came into force.	 Thetruth of the matter is that the latter part of the  judgmentin  this later Full Bench case of the Madras High  Court  weare  now  considering is inconsistent with  the	 very  basicprinciple which, in the earlier part of their judgment,	 thelearned	 judges	 had  conceded, namely, that  the  right  ofappeal	vested	in  the	 parties to  a	suit  or  proceedinginstituted before the date of the Constitution at the  -dateof  the initiation of the suit or proceedings and that	thisright had,nothing to do with the date of the passing of	 thejudgment.    The  learned  judges,  we	say  with   respect,completely  overlooked the fact that the  wide	constructionthey  put upon Art. 133 destroyed the pre-existing right  ofappeal	which had vested in the aggrieved party long  beforethe   commencement  of	the  Constitution  and	 that	thisconstruction amounted to giving the article a  retrospectiveoperation  which  was  not permissible	in  the	 absence  ofexpress provision or necessary intendment.The learned judges constituting this later Full Bench of theMadras High Court seem to have been oppressed by the feelingthat  to hold that Art. 133 did not apply to  all  judgmentspassed by a High Court after the date of the Constitution ina  civil  proceeding  arising out of a	suit  or  proceedinginstituted in the court of first instance prior to that datewill make the article a dead letter for many years to  come.We need535only  point out that the Special Bench in Calcutta  and	 theearlier	 Full  Bench of Madras, which dealt with  the  casesrelating  to the amended cl. 15 of the Letters	Patent	werenot  deterred by any such feeling of oppression from  givingeffect	to the principle which undoubtedly was laid down  bythe  Privy  Council in Colonial Sugar Refining Co.  Ltd.  v.Irving (supra).The  learned judges of this later Full Bench of	 the  MadrasHigh Court may also have been oppressed by the feeling	thatif  Art. 133 were not construed as covering  all  judgments,decrees or final orders of a High Court made after the	dateof  the Constitution in a civil proceeding  irrespective  ofwhether	 such  proceeding  arose  out of  a  suit  or  otherproceeding  instituted before or after that date it will  beto deny a right of appeal to a litigant whose suit had	beenfiled  in a High Court of a princely State long	 before	 theConstitution  came into force and in which an adverse  orderwas made against him by the High Court of the  correspondingPart  B State and he will be deprived of a right of  furtherappeal to this Court for the case will not fall within	Art.135 either.  This argument may be attractive at first but  alittle	reflection will show that there is no  substance  init.  If such a litigant had before the Constitution actuallyfiled  his appeal before the Privy Council of  his  princelyState or had filed an application before that authority	 forleave  to appeal to it then Art. 374(4) will  amply  protecthim,  for  this Court will be competent to  dispose  of	 hisappeal	or application.	 If, however, the judgment had	beenpassed	by the High Court of the princely State	 before	 theConstitution  and  no  appeal or application  for  leave  toappeal	therefrom  had	been actually  filed  in  the  PrivyCouncil then the suggested construction of Art. 133 will nothelp  the  aggrieved  litigant, for Art.  133  so  construedapplies	 only to judgments passed after the commencement  ofthe Constitution.  Nor will Art. 135 be of any assistance tohim because the Federal Court could not, immediately  beforethe   commencement   of	 the  Constitution,   exercise	 anyjurisdiction or powers in relation to a judgment passed by aHigh  Court  of a princely State.  Then there  remain  thoselitigants who filed69536their  suits or proceedings in the High Court of a  princelyState  before  the commencement of the constitution  but  inwhich judgment was passed after the date of the Constitutionby  the	 High Court of the corresponding Part B	 State.	  Itwill be shown hereafter that it is not necessary to put uponArt.  133 such a wide construction as is suggested  by	thislater Madras Full Bench decision.  In any event our  solici-tude  to give a right of further appeal to this Court  to  afew litigants should not lead us to put such a	constructionon  Art. 133 as will take away the right of appeal  of	manymore  litigants who had acquired that right long before	 theConstitution  came  into force.	 The learned judges  of	 theMadras	High  Court  do	 not  appear  to  have	sufficientlyadverted to the fact that a very large number of  litigants,who  had a vested right of appeal from judgments  concerningproperty  or subjectmatter of the value of over	 Rs.  10,000but  below  Rs. 20,000 would be deprived  of  their  -Vestedright.	 We again repeat the admonition given by this  Courtin Daji Saheb Mane v. Shankarrao Vithalrao Mane referred  toabove, namely, a construction which will have such an effectshould	not  be	 adopted unless it is  imperative.   We	 seenothing imperative in Art. 133 in that behalf.There  is another argument advanced against the	 correctnessof this Madras Full Bench decision which may be noticed now.It is pointed out that the learned judges conceded that Art.133 did not apply to a case in which the judgment. decree orfinal	order  of  the	High  Court  was  made	before	 theConstitution.  This concession can only be explained on	 thefooting	 that having been passed before the commencement  ofthe  Constitution such judgment, decree or final  order	 didnot  comply with the requirements of Art. 133, which,  beingprospective, contemplated a judgment, decree or final  orderof the High Court passed after the date of the	Constitutionand  that  as  Art. 133 did not apply the  vested  right  ofappeal	was  governed  by Art. 135.  Then, by  a  parity  ofreasoning  why	can it not be said that Art.  133  does	 notapply  to  a  judgment, decree or final	 order	in  a  civilproceeding arising out of a suit or537proceeding instituted in the court of first instance  beforethe  date  of  the  Constitution, where	 the  value  of	 thesubject-matter	of  the suit and the appeal  was  above	 Rs.10,000 but below Rs. 20,000, because such a judgment, decreeor final order did not satisfy the conditions of Art. 133 asto  valuation?'	 If non-compliance with one  requirement  ofArt.  133, viz., the passing of the judgment after the	dateof  the Constitution takes out of that article	a  judgment,decree or final order passed by a High Court before the dateof  the Constitution in a civil proceeding arising out of  asuit  or  proceeding instituted also before  that  date	 andbrings it within Art. 135 as a matter not comprised in	Art.133, why will not the non-compliance with the conditions  asto  the	 valuation laid down in Art. 133  take	a  judgment,decree or' final order passed by a High Court after the dateof  the	 Constitution in civil proceeding arising out  of  asuit  or proceeding instituted before that date also out  ofthe  operation of Art. 133 and consequently bring it  withinArt. 135 as a matter to which the provisions of Art. 133  donot apply ? The same reasoning, it is urged, should apply toboth  cases.   We need say no more on this  argument  exceptthat we see some force in it, for it is not necessary for usto base our conclusions on this argument.We now pass on to consider another construction of Art.	 133which  appears to us to be quite cogent.  We have seen	thatss. 109 and 110 of the Code of Civil Procedure were  adaptedby  the President's Order and the valuation had been  raisedfrom  Rs.  10,000 to Rs. 20,000 in order to  bring  it	intoconformity  with  Art. 133.  Clause 20	of  that  AdaptationOrder itself provided that such adaptation would not affect.the  vested  rights.  Therefore those litigants	 who  had  avested	right  of appeal from judgments,  decrees  or  finalorders of a High Court in a civil proceeding arising. out ofa  suit or proceeding instituted prior to  the	Constitutionand  which involved a right or property valued at  over	 Rs.10,000 but below Rs. 20,000 are still to be governed by	 theold ss. 109 and 110.  This means that the words "  judgment,decree	or final order" occurring in ss. 109 and 110 of	 theCode as538adapted	 must be read as a judgment, decree or	final  ordermade  after the date of the adaptation other than  those  inrespect of which a vested right of appeal existed before theadaptation  and which were preserved by cl. 20.	 If ss.	 109and 110 must be read in this way why should not Art. 133  beread as covering all judgments, decrees or final orders of aHigh Court passed after the commencement of the Constitutionother  than  those  in respect of which a  vested  right  ofappeal	existed	 from before the Constitution?	It  is	saidthat there is no saving provision to Art. 133 like cl. 20 ofthe Adaptation Order and, therefore, Art. 133 cannot be readin a restricted way.  This argument is unsound and here	 theobservations  of  Rankin C.J. in the Special Bench  case  ofCalcutta referred to above become apposite, namely, that theprovision which takes away jurisdiction is itself subject tothe implied saving of the litigant's right.  Clause 20 'willbe meaningless if Art. 133 is also not read in a  restrictedsense.	 This restricted% construction of Art. 133 will	 notbe  open  to the objection that it  deprives  the  aggrievedlitigant who had filed his suit or proceeding in a  princelyState  before the Constitution but against whom	 an  adversejudgment,  decree or final order has been made by  the	HighCourt  of  the	corresponding Part.B  State  for  the  PrivyCouncil to which that litigant had the right to go had	beenabolished.   Such  a  litigant	had  no	 vested	 right	 andtherefore  he  can  come under Art. 133	 if  the  conditionsthereof aresatisfied.As  against  this construction it is said that it  will	 nothelp   a  litigant  who	 had  filed  his  suit	before	 theConstitution but against whom an adverse order is made afterthe  Constitution, for having on this construction a  vestedright  of appeal he will be outside the purview of Art.	 133and  he	 can only exercise his vested right if he  can	comewithin	Art. 135.  It is said that in order to	come  withinArt. 135 the judgment, decree or final order must be  passedbefore the commencement of the Constitution when the FederalCourt was in existence, for on the coming into force of	 theConstitution the Federal Court ceased to exist and539the   Federal	Court  could  not  possibly   exercise	 anyjurisdiction  immediately  before the  commencement  of	 theConstitution  with respect to a judgment, decree  or'  finalorder	which  had  been  passed  after	 the  date  of	 theConstitution  when the Federal Court ceased to exist.	Thisis  to give Art. 135 a very narrow and limited	constructionwhich  was  deprecated by this Court in Daji Saheb  Mane  v.Shankarrao   Mane   (supra).   Further	 this	constructionoverlooks  the fact that Art. 135 confers on this Court	 thesame  jurisdiction and power with respect to any  matter  towhich  the provisions of Art. 133 or Art. 134 do not  apply,if  the	 jurisdiction and power in relation to	that  matterwere exercisable by the Federal Court immediately before theConstitution  under  any  existing law.	 If  we	 accept	 theposition  that at the date of the institution of  the  civilproceeding  a right vested in the litigant to appeal to	 theFederal	 Court. then it becomes difficult to hold that	suchvested right did not constitute a " matter " in relation  towhich  jurisdiction  and  powers  were	exercisable  by	 theFederal	 Court	immediately before the commencement  of	 theConstitution.  - The word " matter " is certainly a word  ofwide  import  and by interpreting it in a  liberal  way	 thevested	rights	of  appeal may well be	brought	 within	 thepurview of Art. 135.  If we say that the Federal Court couldnot exercise jurisdiction or power unless a judgment, decreeor final order was actually passed before it ceased to existthen  it  will also have to be said that the  Federal  Courtcould  not exercise jurisdiction or power in relation  to  ajudgment,  decree or final order passed before	the  FederalCourt ceased to exist, but with respect to which no leave toappeal bad been obtained either from the High Court or	fromthe Federal Court, for without such leave no jurisdiction orpower  was  exercisable by the Federal Court in	 respect  ofthose  judgments, decrees or final orders.  This  Court	 hasalready	 held  that the word " exercisable " should  not  beused  in that limited and restricted sense.  In our  opinionjurisdiction and powers in relation to a judgment, decree orfinal  order  to  be  passed by the  High  Court  after	 theConstitution but with respect to540which a right of appeal had vested in the parties before thecommencement of the Constitution must be 'held to have	been" exercisable " by the Federal Court immediately before	 thecommencement  of  the Constitution.  Such  jurisdiction	 andpowers	were "exercisable " in the sense that they could  beexercised  as soon as a judgment, decree or final order	 waspassed	provided  that	with respect to it  a  litigant	 hadalready	 acquired  a vested right of appeal.   There  is  noreason	why the operation of Art. 135 should be	 limited  tocases where the right of appeal was not a mere	potentialitybut  had  actually  arisen in a	 concrete  form	 immediatelybefore the commencement of the Constitution as was suggestedby  Chakravartti  C. J. in Prabirendra Mohan  v.  BerhamporeBank Ltd. (supra).In  our opinion Veeranna v. Chinna Venkanna (supra) and	 thecases following it were not correctly decided.Our  attention has been drawn to the case of Nathoo  Lal  v.Durga  Prasad  (1) where an objection was raised as  to	 themaintainability of that appeal on the ground that  accordingto  the	 Code  of Civil Procedure of the  Jaipur  State	 thedecision  of the Jaipur High Court was final and no  furtherappeal lay from it and, therefore, the appeal to this  Courtwas   incompetent.   It	 was  further  contended  that	 theproceeding in the suit decided in 1945 had concluded by	 thedecision of the Jaipur High Court given in 1949 and that thereview	judgment which modified the decree in regard to	 theimprovements  could not entitle the appellant to reopen	 thedecision  of the High Court of Jaipur given in	1949.	ThisCourt observed at page 55:-"In  our opinion, this objection is not well  founded.	 Theonly  operative	 decree	 in  the  suit	which  finally	 andconclusively  determines  the rights of the parties  is	 thedecree	passed on the 5th of April, 1950, by  the  RajasthanHigh Court and that having been passed after the coming intoforce  of  the	Constitution of	 India,	 the  provisions  ofarticle 133 are attracted to it and it is appealable to thisCourt	provided  the  requirements  of	 that  article	 arefulfilled.  The Code of Civil Procedure of the Jaipur  Statecould not determine(1)  [1955] 1 S.C.R. 51.541the  jurisdiction of this Court and has no relevancy to	 themaintainability of the appeal.	The requirements of  article133   having   been  fulfilled,	 this  appeal	is   clearlycompetent."What  was  claimed by the respondent was  the  attribute  offinality attaching to the judgment, decree or final order ofthe  Jaipur  High Court.  The argument was that	 the  JaipurHigh  Court having given its judgment in 1949 that  judgmentbecame	final and the respondent has a vested right to	thatfinal  order, and that right had not been taken away by	 theConstitution  either expressly or by  necessary	 intendment.What this Court said was that the review application  havingbeen  made the appeal became pending and at large,  for	 thejudgment was under consideration and, therefore, no finalityhad attached to it before- the Constitution came into force.The  judgment  on review was passed by	the  Rajasthan	HighCourt  in April, 1950, that is, after the Constitution by  aHigh  Court  of	 a  Part  B  State  constituted	 under	 theConstitution  and  the	respondent had no  vested  right  offinality  in relation to any judgment of the Rajasthan	HighCourt,.	 The appellant's vested right of appeal to the PrivyCouncil	 of that State came to an end as that authority	 wasabolished  and	at the date of the suit he had no  right  offurther appeal from the judgment of the Jaipur High Court tothe Federal Court or to this Court.  That being the positionit  *as	 a  judgment with respect to which  nobody  had	 anyvested right of appeal and, therefore, an appeal lay to thisCourt  under Art. 133 as construed above. lt did not  matterin that case whether the appeal was maintainable under	Art.133 or Art. 135 and the question that we are considering  inthe  present  appeal does not appear to have been  urged  bylearned	 counsel or discussed by the court in that case	 andthe  cryptic observation quoted above cannot be taken  as  aconsidered  and final expression of opinion that whenever  ajudgment, decree or final order is passed after the date  ofthe  Constitution  it must come within Art.  133  no  matterwhether the proceedings were instituted before or after thatdate,542For  reasons  stated above we think that the  suit,  out  ofwhich this application arises, having been instituted beforethe  date of the Constitution the parties thereto had,	fromthe  date of the institution of the suit, a vested right  ofappeal	upon  terms  and conditions then in  force  and	 thejudgment  sought  to be appealed from being  a	judgment  ofreversal and the value of the subject matter being above Rs.10,000	the  applicant had a vested right of appeal  to	 theFederal	 Court	under  the  provisions	of  the	 old   CivilProcedure, Code read with the Government of India Act, 1935,and  the  Federal Court (Enlargement of	 Jurisdiction)	Act,1947.  Such a vested right of appeal was a matter which	 didnot  fall within Art. 133 and jurisdiction and	powers	withrespect	 to  such  right of appeal was	exercisable  by	 theFederal	 Court	immediately before the commencement  of	 theConstitution  and consequently the applicant had a right  ofappeal	under  Art. 135 and the High Court was in  error  inrefusing  leave	 to  appeal to the petitioner.	 As  in	 ouropinion	 the petitioner was entitled under Art. 135 to	comeup  on appeal to this Court as of right and such  right	 hasbeen  wrongly  denied  to  him	we  are	 prepared,  in	 thecircumstances  of this case, to grant him special  leave  toappeal	to  this Court under Art. 136 of  the  Constitution.The petitioner will have the costs of this application	fromthe respondents Nos.  I and 2.We  are	 indebted to the learned Attorney-General,  who	 hasassisted  us as amicus curiae in deciding  this	 applicationand  we	 are also free to express our  appreciation  of	 thecogent and learned arguments advanced by the learned counselfor both parties.VENKATARAMA  AYYAR  J.-The point for determination  in	thispetition is whether the petitioner is entitled to appeal, asa  matter of right, against the judgment of the Andhra	HighCourt  in  A.S. No. 301 of 1951 delivered  on  February	 10,1955.	My  brothers are of opinion that he is	so  entitledunder Art. 135 of the Constitution.  I regret I am unable toagree  with this conclusion.  In my opinion,  the  governingprovision is543Art.  133, and as the suit was valued at Rs.  11,400/-,	 theappeal would be incompetent, unless it fell within Art.	 133(1)  (c).   This is in accordance with the view taken  by  aFull  Bench of the Madras High Court in Veeranna  v.  ChinnaVenkanna  (1),	which has since been followed  by  the	HighCourt  of Calcutta in Prabirendra Mohun v.  Berhampore	BankLtd (2 ), by the High Court of Allahabad in Ram Sahai v. RamSevdk(3) and Tajammul Hussain v. Mst.  Quaiser Jahan  Begum(4)  and by the High Court of Punjab in The Indian Trade	 andGeneral Insurance Ltd. v. Raj Mal Paharchand (5), while	 thecontrary  view	has been taken by the Bombay High  Court  inDajee  Sahib v. Sankar Rao(6), by the Nagpur High  Court  inBhagawantrao v. Viswasa Rao (7) and by the Patna High  Courtin N. P. Sukul v. R. K. Misra (8).  We have had the  benefitof  a full and learned argument on the question, and  havingcarefully  reconsidered	 the  matter, I	 have  come  to	 theconclusion  that the view taken by the majority of the	HighCourts is correct.The  judgment against which the present appeal is sought  tobe  preferred  was  pronounced on February  10,	 1955.	 TheConstitution  of India came into force on January 26,  1950,and Arts. 131 to 140 therein define the jurisdiction of	 theSupreme Court, original and appellate.	It being settled lawthat  an appeal does not lie unless expressly given  by	 thestatute,  the  sole point for determination is	whether	 thepresent appeal is authorised by any of those Articles.	 Thetwo  Articles which bear on the question are Arts.  133	 and135.   According  to  the petitioner, it is  Art.  135	thatapplies,  and  he  has	a right	 to  appeal  to	 this  Courtthereunder.  Article 135 is as follows:"  Until Parliament by law otherwise provides,	the  SupremeCourt  shall also have jurisdiction and powers with  respectto  any	 matter to which the provisions of  article  133  orarticle	 134  do not apply if jurisdiction  and	 powers	 in,relation to that matter were exercisable(1) I.L.R. 1953 Mad. 1979.    (5)A.I.R.1956 Punjab. 228.(2) A.I.R. 1954 Cal. 289.     (6)I.L.R. 1952 Bom. 906.(3) A.I.R. 1956 All 321.      (7)I.L.R. 1953 Nag. 822.(4) A.I.R. 1956 All. 638.     (8)[1933]	 I.L.R.	 32  Patna400.70544by the Federal Court immediately before the commencement  ofthis Constitution under any existing law."For this Article to apply, two conditions must be fulfilled:(1) The matter should be one which does not fall within	 thepurview	 of  Art.  133; and (2) it should  be  a  matter  inrespect of which jurisdiction was exercisable by the FederalCourt before the commencement of the Constitution under	 anyexisting law.  Whether the present appeal is competent underArt.  135  will depend on whether it  satisfies	 both  theseconditions.Taking	the  first condition, it is the	 contention  of	 therespondent that the present matter falls within the  purviewof  Art.  133,	and that therefore  Art.  135  is  excluded.Article	 133,  in so far as it is material for	the  presentpurpose, runs as follows:133(1)	" An appeal shall lie to the Supreme Court from	 anyjudgment, decree or final, order in a civil proceeding of  aHigh  Court  in	 the territory of India if  the	 High  Courtcertifies-(a)that	 the amount or value of the subjectmatter  of  thedispute in the court of first instance and still in  disputeon appeal was and is not less than twenty thousand rupees orsuch  other  sum  as  may be specified	in  that  behalf  byParliament by law; or(b)that	 the  judgment,	 decree or  final  order  involvesdirectly  or  indirectly some claim or	question  respectingproperty of the like amount or value; or(c)that	 the case is a fit one for appeal to  the  SupremeCourt;and where the judgment, decree or final order appealed	fromaffirms	 the decision of the court immediately below in	 anycase other than a case referred to in subclause (c), if	 theHigh  Court further certifies that the appeal involves	somesubstantial question of law." This  Article	is clearly not retrospective, and  that	 hasbeen repeatedly held by this Court.  But the only result  ofit  is, as decided in Janardan Reddi and others v. State  ofHyderabad (1), that appeals against(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 344.545judgments,  decrees or final orders passed prior to  January26,  1950,  will  not  be governed  by	Art.  133.   And  asprospective in character, there being no words' limiting itsoperation  in  any manner, it will apply to  all  judgments,decrees	 or final orders passed after the coming into  forceof  the Constitution, and as the judgment in this  case	 waspronounced on February 10, 1955, the right of appeal againstit  must be determined in accordance with Art. 133,  and  asthe  valuation of the suit was only Rs. 11,400, the  presentappeal	would  be incompetent, as the requirements  of	Art.133(1) (a) are not satisfied.The  answer of the petitioner to this contention might	thusbe stated: Under the law as it stood on April 22, 1949, whenhe filed the suit he had vested in him a right of appeal  tothe High Court and from the High Court to the Federal Court.That  right  has  not been taken away  by  the	Constitutionexpressly  or by necessary implication, and the Articles  ofthe  Constitution should therefore be so interpreted. as  togive effect to it.  That requires that the operation of Art.133  should  be limited to judgments and decrees  passed  incivil  proceedings  instituted after the  Constitution.	  Ifthat  Article is so interpreted, judgments passed  in  suitsinstituted before, though delivered after the  Constitution,will  fall outside its purview.	 And that will let  in	Art.135.  As this is the sole ground for construing the languageof Art. 133, which is wide and unqualified, in a  restrictedsense, it is necessary to examine rather closely whether thepetitioner  had	 any  vested  right  of	 appeal	 before	 theConstitution, what the scope of it is, and whether it is onewhich  could  survive to him under  the	 Constitution.	 Thefurther	 question will arise whether even if that is so,  itis permissible to read into the Article words which are	 notthere, so as to cut down its operation.The contention of the petitioner that when he instituted thesuit  in the Sub-Court, Bapatla, on April 22, 1949,  he	 hadunder  the then law a right of appeal to the High  Court  ofMadras	against	 the  judgment passed in  that	suit  and  afurther	 right	of  appeal to the Federal  Court  against  ajudgment to be passed by the High Court in the appeal, restson the decision in Colonal546Sugar Refining Company v. Irving (1).  There, the facts werethat  an  action  was  commenced in  the  Supreme  Court  ofQueensland on October 25, 1902.	 On that date, according  tothe  Order in Council dated June 30, 1860, an appeal lay  tothe Privy Council against the judgment of the Supreme Court.While  the action was pending, the Judiciary Act, 1903	cameinto  force on August 25, 1903, and the result of it was  toabolish	 appeals  to  the Privy Council	 and  to  substitutetherefor a right of appeal to the High Court of Australia inrespect of matters mentioned therein.  On September 4, 1903,the  Supreme Court gave judgment dismissing the action,	 butgranted	 leave	to  the plaintiff to  appeal  to  the  PrivyCouncil.  The plaintiff having lodged an appeal pursuant  tothe  leave,  a preliminary objection was raised	 as  to	 itsmaintainability	 on  the ground that as the  judgment  underappeal	had been pronounced after the coming into  force  ofthe  Judiciary	Act, any appeal against the  same  would  begoverned  by  the  provisions  of that	Act,  and  that,  inconsequence,   the   appeal-to	 the   Privy   Council	 wasincompetent.  In overruling this contention, Lord Macnaghtenobserved:"  The	Judiciary  Act	is  not	 retrospective	by   expressenactment  or  by necessary intendment.	 And  therefore	 theonly question is, was the appeal to His Majesty in Council aright vested in the appellants at the date of the passing ofthe Act, or was it a mere matter of procedure?	It seems  totheir  Lordships that the question does not admit of  doubt.To  deprive a suitor in a pending action of an appeal  to  asuperior  tribunal  which belonged to him as of right  is  avery   different  thing	 from  regulating   procedure.	  Inprinciple,   their  Lordships  see  no	difference   betweenabolishing an appeal altogether and transferring the  appealto a new tribunal.  In either case there is an	interferencewith  existing	rights contrary to  the	 well-known  generalprinciple   that  statutes  are	 not  to  be  held  to	 actretrospectively	 unless a clear intention to that effect  ismanifested."It  is on this decision that the entire argument in  supportof  the	 petition is founded.  But is it correct ?   It	 maylook a daring and almost fatuous adventure to(1)  [1905] A.C. 369.547canvass	 the correctness of the decision in  Colonial  SugarRefining  Company v. Irving (supra), especially when it	 hasbeen followed by Courts in this country for well nigh half acentury.   But	with all the respect which I  have  for	 thedecision of a tribunal so august as the Privy Council and ofa Judge so eminent as Lord Macnaghten, I am of opinion	thatthe  decision in question cannot be supported on  principle,that  it  is not warranted by the authorities,	and  cannot,therefore, be followed.Considering  the  question  on principle,  an  appeal  is  aproceeding  by which the correctness of the decision  of  aninferior  court	 is challenged before a superior  court.   Aright of appeal therefore can arise by its very nature	onlywhen  a decision by which a litigant is aggrieved is  given,and it sounds paradoxical to say that it arises even  beforejudgment  in  the case is pronounced.  Now what	 reason	 canthere  be  for	holding that a right of appeal	vests  in  asuitor at the commencement of the proceedings?	If it is  tobe  held  not  to arise on the date of	judgment,  then	 whyshould	it  be	held  to arise on  the	institution  of	 theproceedings,  and not on the date of the  transaction  which-forms the foundation for those proceedings ? If it is to besaid that when a litigant commences a proceeding he acts  onthe  expectation that a right of appeal existing  under	 thethen  law  with reference to that proceeding  would  not  betaken  away,  it could likewise be said that when  a  personenters	into a -transaction, he does so in  the	 expectationthat  the right of action and of appeal in relation  theretounder  the  then  law  would be available  to  him  for	 theenforcement of his rights under the transaction.  And no onehas  asserted that a right of appeal is to be determined  onthe law as it stood on the date of the transaction.Then   again,  if  the	right  of  appeal  arises   at	 thecommencement  of  the  action, in whom	does  it  vest,	 theplaintiff  or  the  defendant  ? It is	the  suitor  who  isaggrieved  by  the decision that has a right  to  prefer  anappeal against it, and it might, according to the result, beeither the one or the other, and if the theory that a  rightof appeal arises when the proceedings are548commenced is to be accepted, it must be held to vest at thatpoint  of time both in the plaintiff and the defendant,	 andcease on the determination of the cause as regards the partywho  succeeds,	and  where the success is  partial,  to	 theextent	of  that  success.  Can	 anything  so  nebulous	 andcontingent be regarded as a right and as a right which vestsbefore a decision is given.  The judgment in Colonial  SugarRefining  Company  v. Irving (supra) does not  disclose	 thereasoning  on which it is based.  Lord Macnaghten  no  doubtrefers to " a long line of authorities from the time of LordCoke to the present day ", and they are presumably what	 arereferred  to  in the argument of counsel at page  370.	 Butwhen  examined, they do not bear on this point.	 Lord  Coke,in  commenting	on the Statute of Gloucester (6,  Edward  I,Chap.  78, s. 3) which prohibited alienations  of  tenement,stated:"  This extendeth to alienations made after the statute	 andnot  before;  for  it is a rule of law	of  Parliament	thatregularly  nova constitutio futuris forman  imponere  debet,non praeteritis" (a new statute regulates future conduct andnot past(1)).From  this  passage, one may say that legislation  does	 notaffect a right of appeal, which has accrued.  But it  throwsno light on the question when that right accrues, whether atthe  commencement of the action or on the  pronouncement  ofthe decision.In Towler v. Chatterton (2), the suit was to recover an oralloan,  and  the	 question was whether it  was  hit  by	LordTenterdon's  Act, which required that, to take the case	 outof  the	 operation of the statute of  limitation,  the	debtshould	be in writing.	That Act was passed after  the	debtwas  contracted but before the action was  brought  thereon.It was held that having regard. to the terms of the Act,  itmust  be held to be retrospective, and that the	 action	 wasnot maintainable.The decision in The Ydun (3) is similar to the one in Towlerv. Chatterton (supra).	The plaintiffs sued for damages	 forthe  grounding	of their vessel on September  13,  1893,  byreason of the neglect of the defendants.(1)  2 Inst. 292.(2)  (1829) 6 Bing. 253; 31 R.R., 411.(3) (1899) P.D. 236.549On  December 5, 1893, the Public Authorities Protection	 Actcame  into force, and that provided that an  action  againstpublic authorities grounded on neglect or default should  becommenced within six months of such neglect or default.	 Thesuit  was  actually  filed on November	14,  1898,  and	 thequestion  was  whether the right which had  accrued  to	 theplaintiffs  on	September  13,	1893,  was  barred  by	thisenactment,  which came into force on December 5,  1893.	  Itwas held that it was.In  Attorney-General v. Sillem (1), the point  for  decisionwas whether in exercise of a power conferred on the Court ofExchequer to frame rules for regulating practice before	 it,it could enact a rule providing for an appeal.	The House ofLords  held that it could not, because an appeal was  not  amatter	relating  to  practice or  procedure,  and  must  beconferred by the legislature itself.In  In	re Joseph Suche & Company Ltd. (2), the	 facts	werethat  an order was -made on January 30, 1875, winding  up  acompany under the supervision of the Court.  Under  the	 lawas  it then stood, a secured creditor was entitled to  provefor the full amount of the debt without deducting the  valueof  the	 securities. Subsequent to the order, s. 10  of	 theJudicature  Act,  1875 came into operation, and	 under	thatsection,  the  secured	creditor could only  prove  for	 thebalance	 of  the  claim after deducting	 the  value  of	 thesecurities.   The  point in dispute was	 whether  a  securedcreditor was entitled to prove for the entire debt under thelaw  as it stood at the date of the order of winding up,  oronly  for the balance of the debt after deducting the  valueof  the security in accordance with s. 10 of the  JudicatureAct.,  It was held by Jessel M. R. that the right  to  provefor a debt was not a mere matter of procedure, and could notbe  distinguished  from	 a right of  action,  and  that	 thecreditor  was therefore not affected by the change  effectedby  s.	10  of the Judicature Act.  The decision  in  In  reAthlumney  (1) is similar to the one in In re Joseph  Suche,and(1)  [1864] 10 H.L.C. 704; 11 E.R. 1200.(2)  [1875] 1 Ch.  D. 48.(3) [1898] 2 Q.B. 547.550Company Ltd. (supra), the question being whether the ,rightsof a creditor who had proved for his debt could be  affectedby the provisions of a Bankruptcy Act, which came into forceafter  proof of such debt.  Following In re Joseph  Suche  &Company Ltd., it was held that the right to prove a debt wasa substantive one, and was not affected by the provisions ofthe Bankruptcy Act, which came into force after such proof.It may be taken on these authorities that a right of  appealis  a substantive right and not a mere matter of  procedure,and  that a legislation subsequent to the accrual of such  aright  must  not be construed as taking it away,  unless  itdoes  so  expressly or by necessary  implication.   But	 thequestion still remains when that right accrues or vests; andthat  did  not arise for determination	in  the	 authoritiescited  above, and indeed, does not appear to have  been	 thesubjectmatter  of any pronouncement prior to Colonial  SugarRefining Company v. Irving (supra), and the decision thereinthat  a right of appeal vests when the action  is  commencedwould  accordingly  appear to be a deduction made  from	 thecharacter  of the right as a substantive one.  But is  it  aright deduction to make ?  It is one thing to say that rightof  appeal  is a substantive right, and	 quite	a  differentthing to hold that it vests at the date of the	commencementof  the proceedings.  It would be perfectly logical to	holdthat  the right of appeal is a substantive right and at	 thesame time that it arises only when the decision which is  tobe  appealed against is rendered.  The result of  that	viewwill be that a right of appeal which arises when a  judgmentis given, would stand unimpaired by a subsequent legislationaltering or abridging it, unless that is made retrospective,expressly  or by necessary implication.	 On this  reasoning,the  conclusion	 that  because	a  right  of  appeal  is   asubstantive   right  it	 must  be  held	 to  vest   at	 thecommencement  of the action would be non sequitur.   Whetherwe consider the question, therefore, on the principle of  itor  on	the basis of authorities, the decision	in  ColonialSugar Refining Company v. Irving (supra) does not appear  tobe sound.551It  is argued that the decision in Colonial  Sugar  RefiningCompany	 v.  Irving (supra) has been applied, by  the  PrivyCouncil	 in  Delhi Cloth and General Mills Company  Ltd.  v.Income-tax  Commissioner,  Delhi (1) in the  decision  of  aquestion  arising under the Indian Income-tax Act,  that  ithas been followed ever since in numerous decisions, and thatit  is now too late to reverse the current  of	authorities,and  propound  what is a new theory of the law.	  I  see  noforce  in  this contention.  Is it to be expected  that	 theBritish	 Indian Courts would consider this question  on	 itsown  merits, and hold contrary to the decision	in  ColonialSugar  Refining	 Company v. Irving (supra) that a  right  ofappeal	arises, not on the date of the commencement  of	 theaction	but on the date of the judgment ? If Colonial  SugarRefining  Company v. Irving (supra) fails to commend  itselfto us by force of its reasoning, could the decisions of	 theBritish Indian Courts which had no option in the matter	 butmerely	followed  it, take the matter further ? It  is	truethat  the number of decisions which have  followed  ColonialSugar Refining Company v. Irving (supra) is quite a  legion.But apart from any question of stare decision, they have  noindependent  value of their own, and no useful purpose	willbe served -by any detailed reference to them.Then,  there  is the question, whether in view of  the	factthat  the  decision in Colonial Sugar  Refining	 Company  v.Irving (supra) has been followed in this country for quite along  period,  we should not decline to disturb	 it  on	 theprinciple of stare decisis.  But that principle is  properlyapplicable  only  when there is a long course  of  decisionsinterpreting  the  law	in a particular way  and  rights  toproperty  have	been  acquired	and  contractual   relationsentered	 into  on the basis of those decisions.	  It  cannotproperly  be  invoked  when the question  is,  when  on	 theconstruction  of  a  statute a right to appeal	vests  in  asuitor.	 I 'should add that the petitioner did not seriouslycontend	 that the principle of stare decisis would apply  tothe decision of such a question.(1)  [1927] L.R. 54 I.A. 42I.71552I  must now refer to the decision of this Court	 in  HooseinKasam  Dada (India) Ltd. v. The State of Madhya Pradesh	 andothers	(1), where the decision in Colonial Sugar  Refining,Company	 v.  Irving (supra) was followed.  But the,  it	 wasassumed that the decision in Colonial Sugar Refining Companyv.  Irving  (supra) was correct, and the precise  point	 nowunder  consideration  was neither raised nor  decided.	 Thequestion  in its present form was raised in Indira  Sohanlalv. Custodian of Evacuee Property, Delhi and others (2),	 butthe  point was left open.  Vide observations at	 page  1133.The  present  question	must, therefore,  be  taken  as	 notconcluded by any authority of this Court.In jurisdictions not dominated by the Privy Council, as	 forexample,  the United States of America,, it is well  settledthat  the right of appeal is to be determined in  accordancewith the law as it is on the date of the judgment and not asit was on the date of the commencement of the action.  Thus,in  Corpus Juris Secundum, Volume IV, page 63, the  positionis stated as follows:S-3-Statutes taking effect before judgment:Except	where the statute itself provides it or there is  ageneral provision that statutes relating to the remedy shallnot  affect  pending actions, a statute which  gives,  takesaway,  or  modifies the remedy by appeal or  other  mode  ofreview	applies to cases commenced before, but in which	 thejudgment, decree, or order sought to be appealed from is notrendered or made untll after it goes into effect.S-4-Statutes taking effect after judgment:Unless	it  is evident from the terms of  a  statute  which,gives, takes away, or modifies the remedy by appeal or othermode  of review that it was intended' to have a	 retroactiveeffect, it applies only to cases pending and undetermined atthe time when it goes into effect, and has no application tocauses	in  which  final  judgment  has	 been  entered,	  orrendered,   although  not  entered,  prior  to	that   time,particularly where it is(1) [1953] S.C.R. 987.(2) [1955] 2 S.C.R. 1117.553expressly  provided  that  the	statute	 shall	not   affectexisting remedies."The  statement of the law in American Jurisprudence,  VolumeIII, page 145, section 426 is as follows:"As  a	general	 rule, the right of appeal  is	governed  bythe,law applicable thereto in force when the final  judgmentis rendered."Agreeing with the above statements of the law and  differingfrom  the  decision in Colonial Sugar  Refining	 Company  v.Irving	(supra),  I  am of opinion that a  right  of  appealarises only when judgment is given and not earlier, and thataccordingly  the  petitioner  acquired no  vested  right  ofappeal on April 22, 1949, when he instituted the suit.But even if the decision in Colonial Sugar Refining  Companyv.  Irving  (supra)  is to be accepted as  laying  down	 thecorrect	 law,  it  does not go far  enough  to	support	 thepetitioner.   It  should be noted that the ,suit  was  thereinstituted  in a Court from which but for the Judiciary	 Actan appeal would have lain to the Privy Council, and what theJudicial  Committee decided was that the right to prefer  anappeal	became	vested	in the suitor when  the	 action	 wascommenced, and that no legislation subsequent thereto  couldimpair	or take away that right, unless it did so  expresslyor  by	necessary intendment.  Giving full  effect  to	thatdecision,  the	petitioner  can	 only  claim  that  when  heinstituted  the suit in the Sub Court, Bapatla on April	 22,1949,  he had on that date a vested right to file an  appealagainst	 any decision which might be given in that  suit  tothe  High Court of Madras, which was the Court to  which  anappeal	lay from the Bapatla Sub Court on that	date.	Thatright is not in dispute. -The petitioner did file an  appealto the High Court of Madras, and that was heard and  decidedby the Andhra High Court, to which the appeal was  transfer-red.  What the petitioner now claims is something more.	  Hecontends  that not only had he on April 22, 1949,  a  vestedright, of appeal to the High Court of Madras from a judgmentwhich  might  be delivered in his suit in  the	Bapatla	 SubCourt, but that he had also554vested	in  him on that date a further right  to  prefer  an"appeal	 to  the Federal Court against	the  judgment  whichmight  be  delivered by the Madras High Court in  an  appealwhich might be preferred to that Court against the  decisionof  the Bapatla Sub Court.  That is to say, what  vested  inhim on April 22, 1949, was also a right to prefer an  appealto  the.  Federal Court against a non-existent	judgment  ofthe  High  Court in a non-existent appeal.  One	 would	havethought such a contention unarguable, were it not that it issupported  by the decision of a Full Bench of  the  CalcuttaHigh  Court  in	 Sadar Ali v.  Dalimuddin  (1),	 which	war,followed  by  a	 Full  Bench-of the  Madras  High  Court  inVasudeva  Samiar,  In re (2).  It now becomes  necessary  toexamine the correctness of these decisions.In Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin (supra), the question raised	 waswith reference to an amendment of the Letters Patent,  whichprovided  that	no appeal shall lie from the decision  of  asingle	Judge  in second appeal to a Division Bench  of	 theCourt,	unless	a  certificate therefor	 is  granted.	Thisamendment  came into force on January 14, 1928.	  Under	 theterms  of  the	Letters Patent as  they	 stood	before	thisamendment,  an	appeal	lay as a matter of  right  from	 thejudgment  of  a single Judge to a Division  Bench,  and	 thepoint for decision was as to how far this right was affectedby  the amendment.  In the case before the  learned  Judges,the  suit had been instituted in the court of the Munsif  onOctober	 7,  1920, and the second appeal filed in  the	HighCourt  on  October  4, 1926.  It was  actually	heard  by  alearned Judge of the High Court on April 4, 1928, after	 theamendment  had.	 come into force and was dismissed,  and  healso  refused to grant a certificate.  Notwithstanding	thisrefusal,  the appellant sought -to prefer an appeal  againstthis judgment to a Division Bench, and with reference to thebar  created  by  the amendment, he contended  that  he	 hadvested	in  him on October 7, 1920, when  he  commenced	 hisaction,	 a right of appeal to all the courts  in  successionunder  the law as it then stood, and that the amendment	 hadnot deprived him of that right.	 In agreeing with this(I)  [1929] I.L.R. 56 Cal. 512.	 (2) [1928] I.L.R.  52	Mad.361.555contention,  Rankin C. J. who delivered the judgment of	 theCourt, stated the ratio decidendi as follows:"  Now	the  reasoning	of the	Judicial  Committee  in	 theColonial  Sugar	 Refining  Company's   case  (Supra)  is   aconclusive  authority to show that rights of appeal are	 notmatters	 of  procedure,	 and that the 'right  to  enter	 thesuperior court is for the present purpose deemed to arise toa  litigant  before  any  decision  has	 been.given  by	 theinterior  court.  If the latter proposition be accepted.,  Ican  see  no  intermediate  point at  which  to	 resist	 theconclusion  that the right arises at the date of the  suit.,It does not arise as regards Court B alone when the suit  isinstituted in Court A and as regards Court C when the  firstappeal is lodged before Court B...... It is quite true	thatthe suitor cannot enter Court C without going through  CourtB,  but neither can he enter Court B till Court A has  givenits decision.  The right must be a right to take the  matterto Court C in due course of the existing law."It will be noticed that the two propositions of law on whichthe  judgment is based are, first, that a suitor in Court  Ashould	be  held to have a right of appeal to Court  B	evenbefore	Court  A has given its decision,, as  to  which	 thelearned	  Judge	 simply	 observes  that	 the  question	 wasconcluded  by the decision of the Privy Council in  ColonialSugar  Refining Company v. Irving (supra), and second,	thatif  a suit or can have a vested right of appeal to  Court  Bbefore	Court  A  where	 his action  is	 pending  gives	 itsdecision, why not he also have a right vested in him at	 thesame  time  to appeal to Court C even before  an  appeal  isinstituted  in	-Court B. That conclusion  appeared  to	 thelearned	 Chief	Justice	 to follow logically  on  the  firstproposition; but that, in my opinion is open to question.Now, a right of appeal is, as-observed in AttorneyGeneral v.Sillem (supra), "the right of entering a ,superior court andinvoking  its aid and interposition to redress the error  ofthe  court  below" (Vide page 1209), and when  examined,  itwill  be found to possess two facets, a, right conferred  onthe  suitor to challenge the decision given in a  proceedingin.   Court A, by which he is aggrieved, and a	jurisdictionconferred on556Court  B,  which  may be termed as the	superior  Court,  toreview	the decision of Court A, which may be designated  asthe  inferior  Court.	The  right of  the  suitor  and	 thejurisdiction,  of the Court are both of them  necessary	 andessential  ingredients	that  together go  to  make  up	 theconcept	 of  appeal,  and both of  them	 must  expressly  begranted	 by the legislature.  Reference may be made  to	 thefollowing  observation of Lord Westbury in  Attorney-GeneralV. Sillem (supra):"The  creation	of a new right of appeal is plainly  an	 actwhich requires legislative authority.  The Court from  whichthe  appeal  is given and the Court -to which it  is  given,must both be bound , and that must be theact of some higher power."And  he	 also  defined a right of appeal as  "in  effect,  alimitation  of	the  jurisdiction  of  one  Court,  and	  anextension of the jurisdiction of another." The position thenis  that  a,  right which is given to  a  suitor  to  appealagainst	 a  decision  of Court A is  not  something  in	 theabstract but one which has to be exercised in Court B, whichderives its power to hear appeals against decisions of CourtA under legislative authority, and it is therefore  possibleto conceive of such right only in relation to two  specifiedCourts A and B.When  the  law establishes a hierarchy of  Courts  and	thenprovides in succession for appeals from a Court of the lowergrade to one of the higher grade, it will not be correct  toregard those appeals as forming a single proceeding, or	 theright  to  file	 them  as a single  right.   If	 a  suit  isinstitute& in Court A and the law permits an appeal  againstits decision to Court B, add if the law further provides foran appeal from the decision of Court B to Court C, and thereis  again  a right of further appeal  provided	against	 thedecision of Court C to Court D, the successive appeals	fromCourt A to Court B, from Court B to Court C and from Court Cto  Court  D  are distinct proceedings	independent  of	 oneanother.  How then can the right of appeal from one Court toanother	 be  held  to  comprise	 within	 it  the  right	  ofappeal from that Court to a, third Court?  Section 96,	Codeof   Civil  Procedure,	provides  for  an  appeal   from   adecree passed by the trial court, and under557that  provision	 the decision in a suit	 instituted  in	 thecourt  of a District Munsif will be open to appeal  to	the,District  Court.'  Section 100, Code  of  Civil	 Procedure,'provides  for  further	- appeal from the  judgment  of	 theDistrict  Court to the High Court; but this right of  secondappeal	is much more limited than that given  under  section96.  It lies only when there is a question of law, and it isalso  subject  in certain cases, to  pecuniary	limitations.Thus, the rights of appeal conferred by ss. 96 and 100, Codeof  Civil  Procedure,  are different in	 their	quality	 andcontents.  Then again, under so. 109 and 110, Code of  CivilProcedure, a further appeal is provided against the decisionof  the	 High Court to this Court subject again	 to  certainconditions.   This is 'a right different in.  its  characterfrom the right of appeal conferred by s. 96 or s. 100.	 Thenotion,	 therefore, that if a suitor has a right  of  appealfrom  Court  A to Court B, that right includes	a  right  ofappeal	from  Court B to Court C and again from Court  C  toCourt D, would appear to be untenable.Viewing	 the  question next from the point of  view  of	 thejurisdiction  of  the  Court, a right which is	given  to  asuitor	to  challenge the decision of Court A in  appeal  isonly  a	 right	to challenge it before	Court  B,  which  isauthorised to hear appeals from Court A. It cannot extend toa  possible appeal from Court B to Court C, because Court  Cis not a Court authorised to entertain an appeal against thedecision of Court A, and it will be an error to speak of thesuitor	in Court A, having a right of appeal to Court  C  towhich under the law an appeal cannot lie.  Section 96 of theCode  of  Civil	 Procedure brings  out	the  position  quiteunmistakably, when, it provides that an appeal shall,lie "tothe  Court authorised to hear appeals from the decisions  ofsuch  Court."  And  if, as already pointed  out,  under	 thescheme	of the Code an appeal, from Court A to Court B is  aproceeding distinct and different from an appeal from  CourtB  to Court C, and that is a feature which runs through	 theentire	succession  of appeals under the Code,	it  will  beinconsistent  with  that scheme to hold that when  a  suitorcommences an action in Court A, a right vests in him at thattime not merely to appeal from Court C to558Court  B,  a&" held in Colonial Sugar  Refining	 Company  v.Irving	(supra), but also from Court B to Court C and	fromCourt C to Court D. The decision in Colonial Sugar  RefiningCompany	 v. Irving on which this conclusion in Sadar Ali  v.Dalimuddin  (supra)  is based, is clearly  no  authority  insupport of it.But it is said that there were before the decision in  SadarAli  v.	 Dalimuddin (supra) authorities	 of  Indian  Courts,which had held that a suit, appeal and second appeal were tobe  regarded as constituting one proceeding, that Sadar	 Aliv.  Dalimuddin	mer,  this  principle  on  the	decision  inColonial  sugar	 refining  Company  v. Irving  (supra),	 andthat come to therein was therefore well placed on principle.These decisions, however, when examined, contain little thatreally	supports  the  conclusion reached in  Sadar  Ali  v.Dalimuddin.   In  fact, they are merely referred to  in	 thejudgment  at pages 516 and 517 with out any  discussion,  asauthorities relied on by counsel for appellant in support ofhis  contention	 that the principle of s. 6 of	the  GeneralClauses	 Act  was  applicable in  the  construction  of	 theLetters Patent.	 The first of these decisions is  RatanchandShrichand  v.  Hammantray Shivbakas (1).  There,  the  factswere that 'a suit for Rs. 23,319 was instituted in the courtof  the	 Principal  Sadar  Amin	 of  Dhulia,  and  that	 wassubstantially  decreed	on January 29, 1869.  On  March	 19,1869, the Bombay Civil Courts Act came into force, and underthat  Act  appeals in suits exceeding Rs. 5,000 lay  to	 theHigh  Court of Bombay.	But under the law as it stood  priorto  that  date,	 the  appeal against  the  judgment  of	 thePrincipal Sadar Amin would have lain to the District  Court.The  point  for decision was whether an appeal	against	 thedecree, dated January 29, 1869, lay to the District Court orto the High Court.  The learned Judges held that the  properforum  to which the appeal lay was the District Court.	 Thedecision was based on s. 6 of the General Clauses Act, whichenacted that " the repeal of any statute   shall not:  affectany  proceedings  commenced before the repealing  Act  shallhave come into operation." It was(1) (1860) 6 Bom.  H.C. R. 166.559observed  by  Couch  C.J. that "A suit is  a  judicial	pro-ceeding,  and  the  word I proceedings'	 must  be  taken  toinclude	 all the proceedings in the suit from the  date	 of'its  institution  to its final disposal,  and  therefore  toinclude proceedings in appeal." The meaning of this  passageis  clearly this: The word " proceeding" is not	 limited  tosuits;	it  is wide enough to include appeals.	 Just  as  aright of suit which had accrued before repeal is saved by s.6, so also is a right of appeal.  This is all that the aboveobservation  means.  It does not mean that when	 under	thissection a right of suit is saved, a right of appeal  againstthe  decree  passed therein is in addition saved.   This  isclear from the following observations: "  It is clear it was not the intention of the	 Legislatureto  take  away the right of appeal in any case in  which  itexisted	 at  the date of the passing of the  Bombay  Court'sAct."Where,	therefore, a suitor could not maintain a  proceedingby  way	 of  appeal  at	 the  date  of	the  repealing	Act,Ratanchand  Shrichand V. Hammantrav Shivbakas (supra) is  noauthority for holding that such a right is preserved to	 himas comprised in a right of suit which he had on that date.In  Chinto  Joshi v. Krishnaji Narayan (1),  proceedings  inexecution  of a decree had been commenced when the  Code  ofCivil  Procedure, Act VIII of 18-59, was in force.   By	 thetime the properties were actually sold in execution, a,	 newCode  of  Civil	 Procedure,  Act X of  1877  had  come	intooperation.  The judgment. debtor filed an application to setaside  the sale on the ground of irregularity, and the	samewas  allowed.  The question was whether this order was	opento appeal.  It was not appealable under the Act of 1859, butwas  appealable	 under the Act of 1877.	 It  was  held	thatexecution proceedings for the-sale of property would not  becomplete until the Bale had taken place, and that  thereforethe proceedings for sale which were commenced under the	 Actof  1859  were governed by the provisions of that  Act,	 andthat  the  appeal was accordingly incompetent I	 do  not  weanything in(1)  [1879] I.L.R. 3 Bom. 214.72560this decision which touches the present controversy.  In thecourse	of  the judgment, West J. stated  that	opinion	 hadsometimes  been	 expressed  " that the legal  pursuit  of  aremedy, suit, appeal and second appeal, are really but stepsin  a  series  of  proceedings	connected  by  an  intrinsicunity........  Are  we to interpret this remark	 as  meaningthat  under  the law, suit, appeal, and	 second	 appeal	 allconstitute  but	 one proceeding ?   The	 observation  itselfmerely	speaks of them as steps in a series of	proceedings.That  is  to say, they are different  proceedings,  but	 aredirected  to a common purpose.	And are we to build on	thisobservation, reading it along with the decision in- ColonialSugar  Refining	 Company v. Irving (supra) the	theory	thatwhen  a	 right to file an appeal arises,  it  comprehends  aright  to file the whole series of appeals under the  law  ?That  will be putting the observation to a use	which  couldnot  have been contemplated.  On the other hand,  there	 arethe following observations at page 215 in the same judgment,which are more germane to the presentdiscussion:" When judicial enquiry has reached its intended close in anadjudication,  requiring  thenceforward	 in  theory  only  aministerial  or	 coercive exercise of authority to  give  itpractical  effect,  the party who strives by  an  appeal  tounsettle  again the legal relation, which in itself  has  bythe  act of the Court become settled may fairly be  regardedas  instituting a new proceeding Such has been the  view  ofsome eminent authorities.".Then,  there  is  Deb Narain Dutt  v.  Narendra	 Krishna(1).There,	a  decree was obtained under the provisions  of	 theBengal	Tenancy Act VIII of 1869, and by the time  executionproceedings  were started, a new Act VIII of 1885  had	comeinto  operation.  Section 170 of the new Act prohibited	 theentertainment  of any claim by third parties  to  propertiesattached  in execution of a decree.  The point for  decisionwas  whether this provision applied to a claim preferred  tothe  property  attached in execution of	 the  decree  passedunder  Act.  VIII of 1869.  It was contended in	 support  ofthe maintainability of the claim that a right to -prefer(1)  [1889] I.L.R. 16 Cal. 267.561a  claim existed under the provisions of Act VIII  of  1869,and  that under s. 6 of the General Clauses Act	 that  rightcould be exercised notwithstanding the, repeal of that	Act.It was held that the word " proceedings " in the section didnot include execution proceedings, and that, therefore,	 thematter was governed by s. 170 of the Act.Thus,  the authorities referred to at pages 516 and  517  inSadar  Ali v. Dalimuddin (supra) really turn on the  meaningto  be	given to the word it proceedings " in s.  6  of	 theGeneral	 Clauses  Act,	and  they are not  of  much  use  indeciding  the  question	 now under  consideration,  and	 thedecision  in Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin (supra) must  thereforebe  regarded as the first authority which has  extended	 thetheory	of  a  right of appeal vesting at the  date  of	 thecommencement  of the action to the whole series	 of  appealsprovided  by  the  law.	  The  decision	 in  Sadar  Ali	  v.Dalimuddin  (supra)  was  followed by a Full  Bench  of	 theMadras	High Court in Vasudeva Samiar In re (supra),  CouttsTrotter C. J. observing that he would be reluctant to differfrom the Full Bench decision of the Calcutta High Court, andthat  he  also	agreed with the reasoning on  which  it	 wasbased.	 The correctness of these decisions did not come  upfor  consideration before the Judicial Committee,  as  theireffect was promptly nullified by a further amendment of	 theLetters Patent giving retrospective operation to the earlieramendment  of 1928.  But though these  decisions  themselveshad  thus  been	 rendered obsolete,  the  theory  enunciatedtherein of the right of appeal I in all its career'  vestingin  the	 suitor	 at  the  commencement	of  the	 action	 hascontinued to possess the field of law, until it has come  tobe regarded as an established doctrine of our jurisprudence.For  the  reasons  already  given,  that  theory  cannot  beaccepted as sound.  The decisions in Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin(supra),  and Vasudeva Samiar In re (supra) which  expressedthat  theory,  must  be	 held  to  be  erroneous,  and	 thecontention of the petitioner based on those authorities thathe  acquired on April 22,,1949, when he instituted the	suitin the Bapatla Sub Court, a vested right of appeal562to the Federal Court under the then law must be rejected. But  that  does  not  exhaust all  the	 hurdles  which	 thepetitioner  has	 to  cross before he.  can  reach  the	Con-stitution   as	the  holder  of	 a  vested  right,   seekingprotection   for  the  same  therein.	Assuming  that	 thepetitioner  had,  as  decided in  Sadar	 Ali  v.  Dalimuddin(supra),  a right of appeal to the Federal Court before	 theConstitution came into force, did it survive there. after soas  to	be  capable of being exercised	there.	under?	 TheFederal	 Court	was established by the Government  of  IndiaAct,   1935,  and  when	 that  Act  was	 repealed   by	 theConstitution,  the  Court  established	under  it  was	alsoabolished.   When  a  Court in which an	 appeal	 is  alloweditself	ceases to exist, the right of appeal ,to that  Courtmust  also  necessarily cease with it.	It is  not  disputedthat  a right of appeal which is the creature of  a  statutecan  also  be  taken away by it expressly  or  by  necessaryintendment, and what clearer expression of such an intentioncan  there be than the abolition of the very Court to  whichthe ,appeal has to be taken ? How can you -exercise a  rightof  appeal if the Court in which it has to be exercised	 hasdisappeared  ?	This is the main ground of the	decision  inVeeranna  v.  Chinna Venkanna (supra), and  there  has	beenpractically no answer to it in the arguments before us.	  Itwas  argued  that  that decision  proceeded  on	 a  mistakenimpression  that  the Privy Council had	 decided  in  CanadaCement Co.  V. East Montreal (Town of) (1), that a right  ofappeal must be held to be taken away when the:Court to whichit lies is abolished, whereas it is argued that there was noquestion there of abolition of Court.The  facts in Canada Cement Co. v. East	 Montreal (Town	 of)(supra)	 were that the suit was instituted in Court  A	(theCircuit	 Court	of Montreal), and under the  Code  of  CivilProcedure which was then in force, decisions of Court A wereappealable  in certain cases to Court B (Court	of  Review).While  the action was pending, a new law, 10 Geo..5  Ch.  79(Quebec),  was	enacted,  and  that  Act  repealed  all	 thesections in the(1)  [1922] 1 A.C. 140.563Code  providing for appeals from Court A. Section 42 of	 thenew  Act provided that Court C (Court of the  King's  Bench)was to have jurisdiction in respect of all matters in  whichan  appeal  lay	 under the law.	 After this  Act  came	intoforce,	the  suit was tried and decreed, and  the  defendantappealed under s. 42 to Court C. an That Court dismissed theappeal	as  incompetent,  and against  this  dismissal,	 thedefendant  preferred  an appeal to the	Privy  Council,	 andthere, the point for decision was whether an appeal to CourtC  was competent.  The contention of the  respondent,  interalia,  was  that  as the provisions of	the  Code  of  CivilProcedure  which  gave a right of appeal had  been  repealedbefore	the appeal was filed and the new Act which was	thenin force gave no such right, the appeal was incompetent, andthe Privy Council upheld this contention.I  shall have to refer to this decision again, when  I	dealwith the question as to whether Art. 135 is applicable.	  Atthis  stage,  it is only necessary to consider	whether	 thecriticism  of the petitioner that there was no	question  ofabolition  of  Court in Canada Cement Co. v.  East  Montreal(Town  of)  (supra), and that the decision  in	Veeranna  v.Chinna Venkanna (supra) was mistaken in thinking that  therewas,  is justified.  It is true that the judgment in  CanadaCement	Co'  v.	 East Montreal (Town of)  (supra)  does	 notmention that Court.  B (Court of Review) was abolished.	 Butnothing is mentioned in the judgment as to what happened  tothat  Court.  It is probable that it was  abolished  becauseCourt B was under the Code of Civil Procedure merely a Courtof  under the and all the provisions in that Code  providingfor appeals from Court A to Court B had been repealed,	and,instead,  s. 42 provided that Court C. was to hear  all	 theappeals	 which were. maintainable under the law.,  If  therewas no jurisdiction left in Court B to hear appeals, then itmust  have been abolished, it being only a Court of  Review.This  is  bow it was understood by Coutts  Trotter  C.J.  inVasudeva  Samitia).  In re (supra), wherein It(,  summarisedthe effect of the decision thus:564By  10 George V, Chap. 79 (Quebec), the right of appeal	 wastransferred  from the abolished Court to the Appellate	Sideof the Court of King's Bench in Quebec, but no provision wasmade  for the transference of appeals which could have	lainto  the abolished Court to the newly  constituted  AppellateCourt.	In these circumstances, their Lordships of the PrivyCouncil	 held that an appeal from the Circuit Court  to	 theCourt of the King's Bench did not lie."But assuming that the Court of Review had not been abolishedin  Canada  Cement Co. v. East Montreal (Town  of)  (supra),nevertheless,  the  principle that on the  'abolition  of  aCourt  the right of appeal to that Court must fall with	 it,is  on its own reason and apart from the authority  of	thatdecision, unassailable and that principle ha; been  affirmedby  this  Court in Dajisaheb Mane and others v.	 Sankar	 RaoVithal Rao Mane and another (1), where the position was thusstated :"If  the  Court	 to  which  an	appeal	lies  is  altogetherabolished without any forum substituted in its place for thedisposal of pending matters or for the lodgment of  appeals,the vested right perishes no doubt."The petitioner -seeks to get over this obstacle by resort toCl.  20	 of the Adaptation of Laws Order,  1950,  which	 waspromulgated  by	 the  President in exercise  of	 the  powersconferred  by Art. 372 (2) of the Constitution.	 It runs  asfollows:" Nothing in this Order shall affect the previous  operationof,  or anything duly done or suffered under, any  'existinglaw,  or  any  right,  privilege,  obligation  or  liabilityalready acquired, accrued or incurred under any such law, orany penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred in respect ofany offence already committed against any such law."The contention of the petitioner is that the right of appealwhich  he  had to the Federal Court in accordance  with	 thedecisions  in  Colonial	 Sugar Refining	 Company  v.  Irving(supra), Sadar Ali v. Dalimuddin (supra) and Vasudeva SamiarIn re (suppa) is saved by(1)  [1955] 2 S.C.R. 872.565the  above  clause,  and therefore  the	 provisions  of	 theConstitution  must  be so construed as	to  effectuate	thatright.	 This argument proceeds on a misapprehension  as  tothe  true character of the right, which the petitioner	had,assuming of course he had one.	That right was not a  right.in  gross to appeal to some Court which is superior  to	 theHigh  Court.  It was a right to appeal to the Federal  Courtagainst the decision of the High Court, and when that  Courtwas  abolished,	 the right which the petitioner had  by	 itsvery  nature  perished	with  that  Court,  and	 there	 wasaccordingly  nothing on which Cl. 20 could operate,  nothingwhich  could be kept alive by it.  It was argued  that	thisCourt does the work which previously was done by the FederalCourt,	and  must,  in	consequence,  be  regarded  as	 itssuccessor,  and	 that would attract the	 operation  of	thatclause.	  This contention is clearly untenable.	 This  Courtwas  established  by the Constitution, and is  a  new  Courtderiving its jurisdiction and powers under the Constitution.Reference  might,  in  this  connection,  be  made  to	 thefollowing  observation	of Patanjali Sastri J. in  State  ofSeraikella and other8 V.  Union of India and another (1):"  The Federal Court, in which the suits were  pending,	 andwhich  had  exclusive jurisdiction to deal  with  them,	 wasabolished and a -new Court, the Supreme Court of India,	 wascreated.  with	original jurisdiction  strictly	 limited  todisputes relating to legal rights between States  recognisedas such under the Constitution."Reliance  was placed by the petitioner on Art. 374(2)  underwhich  all proceedings pending in the Federal Court  at	 thecommencement  of  the  Constitution  stand  removed  to	 theSupreme	 Court,	 but that itself shows that without  such  aprovision  this	 Court would have had no  jurisdiction	overthose cases, and that really goes against the contention  ofthe  petitioner.  Reference was also made to Art. 375  whichenacts that all the Courts in the territory of India are  tocontinue   to	exercise,their	function  subject   to	 theprovisions,of the Constitution.	 But this provision  appliesonly to Courts.,(1)  [1951] S.C.R. 474, 497.566which continued to function after the Constitution as beforeit.   It cannot apply to the Federal Court, which ceased  tofunction  under	 the Constitution.  The net result  is	thateven  if the petitioner had a vested right of appeal to	 theFederal	 Court,	 that right perished with the  abolition  ofthat Court, and there was nothing which survived calling forprotection under the Constitution.  In this view, the reasonfor  construing Art. 133 so as to restrict the	natural	 andplain meaning of the language thereof disappears.I have so far assumed in favour of the petitioner that if hehad a vested right of appeal it would be permissible to readinto  Art. 133 words such as would save that right.  But  isthat  assumption  right ? Can we import	 into  that  Articlewords  which are not there ?  Now, there is no doubt as	 to-the  law on the subject, It is the duty of a Court which  iscalled	upon  to  interpret  a	statute	 to  ascertain	 theintention of the legislature, and it has to do that from theWords actually used." In a Court of Law or Equity, what the Legislature intendedto  be	done  or not to be done	 can  only  be	legitimatelyascertained  from that which it has chosen to enact,  eitherin   express   words   or  by	reasonable   and   necessaryimplication."per Lord watson in Salomon v. Salomon and Co. Ltd. (1).	  Ifthe  words  used are clear and unambiguous,  the  Court	 hasmerely to give effect to them:"  Where  the language of the Act is clear and	explict,  wemust give effect to it whatever may be the consequences; forin that case the words of the statute speak the intention ofthe Legislature." per Lord Chief Justice Tindal in Warburtonv.  Love.  land	 (2).	And  where  the	 intention  of	 theLegislature  as expressed in the language of the statute  isreasonably clear, the Court would so interpret it as to giveeffect	to  that intention, notwithstanding that  the  wordsused are defective, and for that purpose, it could add wordswhich  might have been omitted by mistake or accident.	 Butwhere the language of the enactment is clear and its meaningunmistakable, it is not permissible to read(1) [1897] A.C. 22, 38.(2) [1831] 2 Dow. & CI. (H.L.) 480, 489; 6 E.R. 806, 809.567into  it  a  new provision, which will have  the  effect  ofenlarging  or  abridging its connotation.   Vide  Halsbury'sLaws of England, Hailsham Edition, Volume 31, pages 497	 and498, para 635.	Applying, these principles, the language  ofArt. 133 is crystal clear and unambiguous.  Full effect	 canbe  given to it without reading into it any words which	 arenot   there,  and  according  to  all  settled	 canons	  ofconstruction, therefore, it will not be permissible to	readinto the Article words such as "instituted after the  cominginto  force  of the Constitution." The objection to  such  acourse is all the greater, when it is remembered that it  isa Constitution that we are interpreting.There is, on the other hand, good reason why the addition inquestion  should not be made.  Article 133 is the  provisionof  law	 under	which appeals can  be  preferred  under	 theConstitution from judgments, decrees and final orders of theHigh  Courts  in the territory of India.  It is	 under	thisprovision that appeals against judgments, decrees and  finalorders of High Courts in Part.	B States lie to the  SupremeCourt.	 If  Art.  133	is to  be  restricted  to  judgmentspronounced in proceedings instituted after the Constitution,then  what  is the provision of law under  which  an  appealcould  be taken from judgments of the High Courts in Part  BStates	in suits instituted before the Constitution,  passedafter  the coming into force thereof ? If the contention  ofthe petitioner is correct, then there is no provision in theConstitution  for appeal against these judgments,  a  resultwhich is by itself sufficient, in my opinion, for  rejectingit.   None of the grounds put forward for putting a  limitedconstruction  on  Art. 133 is, to my  mind,  convincing.   Iwould,	on  the	 terms of the  Article,	 hold  that  appealsagainst	  judgments   and  decrees  pronounced	 after	 theConstitution will be governed by the provisions thereof, andthat  accordingly if the petitioner has no right  of  appealunder  that Article, he cannot resort to Art. 135, which  isapplic.	 able only to matters which do not fall within	Art.133.I have next to consider the contention that even if Art. 133applies	 to all judgments, decrees and final  orders  passedafter the Constitution came into force,73568the  present appeal cannot fall within its -purview,  as  itdoes  not satisfy the requirements laid down therein  as  tovaluation, and that therefore it would fall under Art.	135.Now,  the words of Art. 135 are "with respect to any  matterto  which  the provisions of Art. 133 do  not  apply."'	 Thematter	to which the provisions of that Article apply is  anappeal	from any judgment, decree or final order made  in  acivil proceeding by a High Court in the territory of  India.When these conditions are satisfied, the matter falls withinthe ambit of Art. 133, and if a case which falls within	 theambit  of that Article fails to satisfy the conditions	laiddown therein, it cannot be said that it is a matter to whichthe  Article  itself  is  inapplicable.	  A  second   appealpresented  to  a  High	Court under  s.	 100  of  the  CivilProcedure  Code	 does not cease to be an appeal	 under	thatsection,  because it does not disclose any grounds on  whichthe   Court  could  interfere  under  that   section.	 Theeligibility of a candidate to sit for an examination is	 notdestroyed by reason of the fact that he fails to get throughthe examination.  In the present case, the subject-matter ofthe intended appeal is the judgment of a Bench of the AndhraHigh Court, and that was given in an appeal against a decreepassed	in a suit.  It therefore directly falls	 within	 thepurview	  of  Art.  133,  and  whether	it   satisfies	 therequirements laid down therein or not, does not destroy	 itscharacter  as  a  matter to which  the	provisions  of	thatArticle apply.	If so, Art. 135 is inapplicable.There  is  another reason why we should not  accede  to	 thecontention  of	the  petitioner that  an  appeal  against  ajudgment  or decree which would fall within the	 purview  ofArt.  133  should be held to go out of it when it  does	 notsatisfy	  the	requirements,  contained,  therein   as	  tovaluation.   I Suppose that a judgment is passed  after	 theConstitution,  by a High Court in a Part B State in  a	suitcommenced  before  the Constitution, the value of  which  isover Rs. 10,000 but less than Rs. 20,000.  No appeal againstit  would be competent under Art. 133 for want of  requisitevaluation  nor	under  Art. 135,  because  that	 relates  tomatters	 in  respect of which the Federal Court	 could	haveexercised569jurisdiction,  and  that Court had never  jurisdiction	overHigh Courts in Part B States.  Thus, after the Constitution,judgments  in the same class of suits, namely, suits'  whosevaluation  is over Rs. 10,000 but less than Rs. 20,000	willbe appealable if passed by a High Court in Part A State, butnot by a High Court in Part B State.  What is the reason forthis differentiation ?	There is, of course, no question  ofdiscrimination	under Art. 14, as we are concerned with	 theprovisions  of	the  Constitution itself But can  we  put  aconstruction  which will deny citizens equality	 before	 lawand  equal protection of law, unless compelled thereto ?  Infact,  some  of these States had a Privy Council,  and	Art.374, sub-el. (4), provides that appeals pending before	themat the date of the Constitution shall be transferred to	 theSupreme	 Court,	 thus assimilating them to the	position  ofappeals pending before the Federal Court under Art.  374(2).Why then should we construe Arts. 133 and 135 in such manneras to lead to discrimination among suitors similarly  placed? It would be more in consonance with the intendment of	 theConstitution  to hold that Art. 133 applies to	all  appealsagainst	 judgments, decrees or final orders passed in  civilproceedings after the Constitution came into force, and thatif  an	appeal	is not maintainable thereunder,	 it  is	 notmaintainable under Art. 135.The  matter  can  be  viewed from  another  angle.   When  aprovision  of law confers a right of appeal  and  prescribesthe conditions under which it can be exercised, there is, byimplication, a negation of that right where those conditionsare not satisfied.  There can be no difference in  substancebetween a provision which enacts that an appeal shall lie ifcertain	 specified conditions are satisfied, and  one  whichenacts that no appeal shall lie unless those conditions	 aresatisfied.  If Art. 133 had enacted that no appeal shall lieagainst the judgment or decree in a civil proceeding  unlessthe  requirements laid down therein are satisfied,  it	willnot be argued, I presume, that Art. 135 will apply so as  tonullify the prohibition enacted in Art. 133.  In my opinion,the  same result will follow on the language of Art. 133  asit stands, and it should be construed as570enacting that no appeal shall lie unless the requirements ofthat Article are satisfied.  If it was the intention of	 thelegislature  that  an appeal should lie	 against  judgments,decrees	 and  final  orders  passed  in	 civil	 proceedingsinstituted  prior to the Constitution when the value of	 thesubject-matter	was Rs. 10,000 or above, nothing would	havebeen  easier than to say so, by enacting a proviso  to	thateffect	to  Art. 133(1), which deals with that	category  ofappeals,  and  not leave it to be gathered by a	 process  ofinvolved and debatable ratiocination.  In this view, even ifthere be a right of appeal vested in the petitioner prior tothe Constitution as contended for by him, it Must be held tohave been taken away by necessary implication by Art. 133.It  has been uniformly held in America that when a right  ofappeal is given conditioned on the subjectmatter being of  acertain	 valuation,  that provision must be  interpreted  asnegativing  a  right of appeal where that condition  is	 notsatisfied.  In Durousseau v. United States (1), dealing witha provision providing for an appeal when the  subject-matterexceeded 2,000 dollars, Marshall C.J. observed:"...  the  Court implies a legislative	exception  from	 itsconstitutional	 appellate   power   in	  the	 legislativeaffirmative  description of those powers.  Thus, a  writ  oferror  lies  to the judgment of a Circuit Court,  where	 thematter	in controversy exceeds the value of  2,000  dollars.There  is no express declaration that it will not lie  wherethe  matter in controversy shall be of less value.  But	 theCourt considers this affirmative description as	 manifestingthe  intent of the Legislature to except from its  appellatejurisdiction  all  cases decided in the circuits  where	 thematter in controversy is of less value, and implies negativewords"The  rule thus laid down has been followed without  questionin  American Courts.  The decision in Baltimore and  PotomacRailroad  Company v. J. H. Grant (2) is directly  in  point.There,	an  action claiming 2,250 dollars was  commenced  onDecember 6, 1875.  According to(1)  3 L. Edn. 232 at 234-235 ; 6 Cranch 307.(2)  98 U.S. 231 ; 25 Lawyer's Edn. 231.571s.   847  of the Revised Statute which was then in force  anappeal	lay to a superior Court, if the value of the  matterin dispute was 1,000 dollars or more.  In 1879 a new law waspassed	raising the valuation for the purpose of  appeal  to2,500  dollars.	 The question was whether the right  of	 thedefendant  to  appeal against the decree in the	 action	 wastaken  away  by this legislation. Apart from  repealing	 theprior Act, the	new Act was silent on the matter.It	washeld,  following  the  principle  laid	down  in  Durousseauv.United States (supra), that the appealwas	    notmaintainable  as  the  provisions of the  new  Act  must  beconstrued as negativing the right of appeal if the value wasless than 2,500 dollars.The decision in Canada Cement Co. v. East Montreal (Town of)(supra)	 already referred to, is again another authority  insupport of the same conclusion.	 It will be remembered	thatin  that case while proceedings were pending in Court  A,  anew statute was enacted, which dropped the provisions of theCode  of Civil Procedure then in force providing for  appealfrom  Court  A to Court B and invested Court C	with  juris-diction to hear, all appeals which lay under the law.	Withreference  to  jurisdiction exercised by Court B  under	 therepealed  provisions  of  the Civil Procedure  Code,  s.  64provided that," Unless otherwise provided by this Act, all cases,  mattersor  things which, at the time of its coming into force	werewithin the competence of the Court of Review shall be withincompetence    of  the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  sitting  inappeal."This  corresponds  in  substance  to  Art.  135,  the,	onlydifference  being  that	 instead  of  the  words  "   unlessotherwise provided by this I Act ", we have " with referenceto  any' matter to which the provisions of Art. 133  do	 notapply ". In holding that the appeal was not competent  unders. 64, the Privy Council observed:" Now this appeal had not been brought when the statute	 waspassed,	 although, the proceedings before the Circuit  Courthad  been  instituted.	 Consequently  the  statutes  givingwhatever right of appeal may have572existed were replaced by sections which gave none, and s. 64of the Act which provided that matters within the competenceof  the	 Court of Review should be subject to the  Court  ofKing's Bench, must be regarded as qualified by the provisionthat  the powers of the Court of Review with regard  to	 theCircuit Court had been taken away, and consequently to	thatextent the statute I had otherwise provided"'.According to the Privy Council, therefore, the replacing  ofthe  provision	of the Civil Procedure Code,  which  gave  aright  of  appeal, by provisions which gave none  was  otherprovision,  which  barred  resort to s.	 64.   On  the	samereasoning,  it must be held that the applicability  of	Art.135  is	 barred,  by  the  provisions  of  the	Constitutionabolishing  the	 Federal  Court,  replacing  the  provisionsrelating  to  appeal  to  that Court by	 Art.  133,  and  byadapting ss. 109 and 110 of the Civil Procedure Code on	 theterms  of that Article.	 Whether we construe the  provisionsof  Art	 133  as  negativing a right  of  appeal  where	 theconditions  mentioned therein are not satisfied, or  whetherwe  regard  that  Article as covering  the  whole  field  ofappeals against judgments, decrees and final orders in civilproceedings, the result is that the application of Art.	 135would  be excluded on the ground that the matter is not	 oneto which Art. 133 does not apply.The  question  was also raised in argument as to  the  exactconnotation  of	 the  word  " matter "	in  Art.  135.	 Thecontention  of the petitioner is that it is a word  of	wideimport, and willtake  in  judgments and decrees	 in  allcivil proceedings. That	 may be conceded, but by its,  verynature, Art.135 applies only to proceedings to which Art.133 does not apply and therefore appeals against  judgments,decrees	 and  final orders in civil proceedings	 would	fall,within	 it  only  when they have  been	 passed	 before	 theConstitution  came into force but not  thereafter.   Article135 will also apply to proceedings under special Acts,	suchas appeals against orders passed under the provisions of theIndian Income-tax Act to which ss. 109 and 110 of the  CivilProcedure Code do not apply.  Having regard to the  contentsof Art. 135and of ss. 109 and 110 as-adapted,573it may be stated that, broadly speaking, matters in  respectof which appeal would have been competent, under ss. 109 and110  of	 the Code will now be governed by Art. 133,  if	 thejudgment,  decree- or final order appealed against  is	madeafter  the  Constitution, and other matters,  by  Art.	135.But,  in -the view which I have taken that the present	caseis within the purview of Art. 133 and Art. 135 is  thereforeexcluded, there is no need to express any decided opinion asto the true scope of the word "matter" in -Art. 135.The  result then might thus be summed up: The contention  ofthe petitioner that the proposed appeal does not fall withinthe  ambit  of	Art. 133 on the	 ground	 that  that  Articleapplies only to judgments, decrees and final orders pawed inproceedings instituted after the Constitution is  untenable,firstly	 because it proceeds on the notion that a  right  toappeal	to the Federal Court has vested in the suitor  priorto the Constitution, for which there is no justification  onprinciple  or on the statute law of India; secondly  becauseit  involves  reading into the Article words which  are	 notthere and which restrict the plain meaning of the enactment:and  thirdly  because it will lead to the  anomalous  resultthat  there  will be no right of appeal	 against  judgments,decrees	 and  final orders made after  the  Constitution  incivil proceedings instituted prior thereto in the Courts  ofPart B States, whatever their valuation.  The contention  ofthe  petitioner that appeals against judgments,	 decrees  orfinal orders which would otherwise fall within the ambit  ofArt.  133 must be held to fall outside that Article for	 thereason that they have not the requisite valuation prescribedtherein, and that, in consequence, they will be governed  byArt.  135,  is untenable, firstly because Art. 133  must  beconstrued  as  exhaustive of the law in respect	 of  appealswhen they are directed against judgments,- decrees or  finalorders	 in   civil  proceedings;   secondly   because,	  byimplication that Article must be interpreted as	 negativinagany  appeal  which does not satisfy the requirements  as  tovaluation  prescribed  therein; and  thirdly  because,	thatwould result in this discrimination that while appeals	willbe competent against judgments,574decrees	 or  final  orders made	 in  proceedings  institutedbefore the Constitution when made by High Courts in  Part  AStates,	 no appeal will lie against judgments in like  suitsinstituted  in Part B States, though some of them  at  leasthad a provision for an appeal to an authority functioning asthe Privy Council.  The correct interpretation to be put  onArt. 133 therefore is that it applies to all appeals againstjudgments, decrees and -final orders of- the High Courts  inthe  territory of India made after the commencement  of	 theConstitution  in civil proceedings, irrespective of  whetherthose  proceedings  were  instituted  before  or  after	 theConstitution.	Such  an  interpretation  would	 furnish   asimple,	 clear and uniform law for the whole of	 India,	 andthat  would  also avoid discrimination between	suitors	 whoinstituted  actions prior to the Constitution and those	 whoinstituted them after, and between those who have institutedproceedings  in Part A States and those who have  institutedproceedings in Part B States.In  this view, the present petition falls within  Art.	133,and  the. appeal must be held to be incompetent for  failureto satisfy the requirements of Art. 133 (1) (a).		       BY THE COURT.In accordance with the opinion of the majority of the Court,Special	 Leave to Appeal to this Court is granted  on  usualterms.	  The  Petitioner  will	 have  the  costs  of	thisapplication  from Respondents Nos.  I and 2. There  will  bestay  as prayed for in Civil Miscellaneous Petition No.	 579of 1956 until the determination of this appeal.	       Special leave granted.  575