PETITIONER:MESSRS.	 ISPAHANI LTD.	CALCUTTA	Vs.RESPONDENT:ISPAHANI EMPLOYEES UNIONDATE OF JUDGMENT:06/05/1959BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.BENCH:WANCHOO, K.N.SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.GAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1959 AIR 1147		  1960 SCR  (1)	 24 CITATOR INFO : R	    1959 SC1151	 (5,6) RF	    1961 SC 867	 (8) RF	    1962 SC1340	 (6) R	    1963 SC 474	 (4,7) C	    1963 SC1007	 (27) R	    1963 SC1474	 (9) R	    1964 SC1770	 (2) RF	    1969 SC 998	 (9,11,12,15) R	    1972 SC  70	 (9) R	    1976 SC1455	 (19)ACT:Industrial	      Dispute-Puja	       Bonus-Impliedagreement-Test--Benefits   arising  out	 of   service	withemployer's Predecessors-Workmen if entitled to.HEADNOTE:The workmen were originally employed by M/s.  M.M.  IspahaniLtd.,	which	shortly	 before	 the  partition	  of   Indiatransferred   its   registered	office	from   Calcutta	  toChittagong.   The  appellant  company  was  incorporated  onSeptember  5, 1947 and took over the good-will	and  tradingrights of M/s.	M. M. Ispahani Ltd. and, also purchased	 itsstock-in-trade,	 properties and assets.	 Most of the  sharesof the appellant were held by M/s.  M. M. Ispahani Ltd.	 andthe business of the appellant was of the same nature carriedon  in the same premises with the same workmen on  the	sameremuneration.  On the transfer of M/s.	M. M. Ispahani	Ltd.to  Chittagong	the  question  arose  of  retrenching  thoseworkmen	 who were not willing to go to Chittagong  and	whenthe  appellant	company	 came into existence  it  agreed  toemploy those workmen.  The workmen apparently agreed to	 thetermination  of	 their services with M/s.   M.	M.  IspahaniLtd., and after receiving their provident funds and  arrears-of salaries they were appointed by the appellant.  M/s.  M.M.  Ispahani Ltd. used to pay puja bonus to the	 workmen  atthe  rate of one month's wages and the appellant  also	paidthe  same from 1948 up to 1952, even in the years  in  whichthe appellant suffered losses.	As the appellant did not paypuja bonus for 1953, a dispute arose and was referred for25adjudication.	The workmen also claimed benefits  from	 theappellant  for the period of service rendered by them  underM/s.  M. M. Ispahani Ltd.Held, that the workmen were entitled to the puja bonus equalto  one	 month's  wages as it was an  implied  term  of	 theemployment  of the workmen.  Puja was a special festival  inBengal and it had become usual with many firms there to givebonus before Puja to their workmen.  A claim for puja  bonuswas  based  either  on implied	agreement  or  on  customarypayment.   An  implied agreement could be  inferred  if	 thefollowing circumstances were established:-(i)  that the payment was unbroken(ii) that the payment had been made for a sufficiently	longperiod; and(iii) that it was not paid out of bounty.The  payment:  need  not necessarily be at  a  uniform	ratethroughout,  and  it  was for the  Tribunal  to	 decide	 thequantum in a particular year taking into account the variouspayments made in previous years.In  the	 present case the payment was unbroken and  was	 notmade  out  of bounty as it was made even in years  of  loss.The sufficiency of the length of the period depended on	 thecircumstances  of  each	 case and in the  present  case	 theappellant had paid the bonus since its birth.Mahalaxmi  Cotton Mills Ltd., Calcutta v.  Mahalaxmi  CottonMills Workers Union, 1953 L.A.C. 370 approved.Held  further,	that the workmen were not  entitled  to	 anybenefits  arising out of their employment with M/s.   M.  M.Ispahani Ltd.  The workmen had agreed to the termination  oftheir service with that company, and there was no express orimplied	  undertaking  given  by  the  appellant   regardingcontinuity of service when employing the workmen.JUDGMENT:CIVIL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Civil Appeals Nos. 473 &	 474of 1957.Appeals	 by special leave from the judgment and order  datedthe 27th July 1955 of the Labour Appellate Tribunal of Indiaat Calcutta in Appeal No. Cal.	   257 of 1954.M.C. Setalvad, Attorney-General for India (M/s.	    J. B.Dadachanji, S. N. Andley and Rameshwar Nath, Advocate	  ofM/s.  Rajinder Narain & Co., with him) for the appellants.S.K. Mukherjee and P. K. Ghosh for the respondents.261959.  May 6. The Judgment of the Court was delivered by.WANCHOO J.-These are two connected appeals by special  leaveagainst the decision of the Labour Appellate Tribunal in  anindustrial  matter.  Appeal No. 473 is by Messrs.   IspahaniLtd. (hereinafter called the company) and appeal No. 474  isby  the	 employees of the company  represented	by  IspahaniEmployees'  Union  (hereinafter called the  workmen).	Theywill be disposed of by one judgment.There was a dispute between the company and its workmen on anumber	of matters, which was referred by the Government  ofWest  Bengal  to the adjudication of the  Second  IndustrialTribunal,  by an order of December 17, 1953.  There  were  anumber	of matters which had to be adjudicated upon; but  ofthese only two now survive, namely-(1)whether  the	 workmen are entitled to  puja	bonus  for1953, and(2)whether  the workmen are entitled to receive	 from  thecompany	 any benefits for the period of service rendered  bythem under Messrs.  M. M. Ispahani Ltd.A  few facts may be set out here to give the  background  ofthis dispute.  Originally, there was another company  calledMessrs.	 M. M. Ispahani Ltd. which was carrying on  businessin  Calcutta  since December 1934 before  the  partition  ofIndia.	Shortly before the partition took place, Messrs.  M.M.  Ispahani Ltd. transferred their registered	head  officefrom Calcutta to Chittagong, now in Pakistan.  That  companythus  became  a Pakistani company after	 August	 1947.	 It,however, continued to own properties in India and carried onsome business in Calcutta on a small scale.  The company wasincorporated  on September 15, 1947 and took over the  good-will and trading rights of Messrs.  M. M. Ispahani Ltd.	 andalso purchased the stock-in-trade, properties and assets  ofthat  company.	 Most  of the shares of	 the  company  were,however,  held	by  Messrs.  M. M.  Ispahani  Ltd.  and	 thebusiness  of  the, company was of the same  nature  and	 wascarried	 on in the same premises with the  same	 telegraphicaddress27and  with  the	same  workmen  on  the	same   remuneration.Further, the company continued to pay puja bonus at the rateof one month's wages from 1948 up to 1952.  As no bonus	 waspaid  in 1953, a dispute arose between the company  and	 theworkmen,  which	 was referred for  adjudication	 along	withother, matters.The   Industrial  Tribunal  held  that	it  had	  not	beenestablished  that  puja bonus had been paid at	the  uniformrate  of one month's wages for a sufficiently long time	 andfor  unbroken period, and therefore rejected the  claim	 forpuja  bouns  for 1953.	On the other  question	relating  towhether	 the  workmen  were entitled  to  receive  from	 thecompany	 any benefits for the period of service rendered  bythem  under Messrs.  M. M. Ispahani Ltd., it held  that	 theworkmen	 were  entitled	 to take into  account	the  servicerendered  by them under Messrs.	 M. M. Ispahani Ltd. in	 thematter	of benefits due under the law during  their  serviceunder the company.This  award  led to two appeals, one by the company  on	 thequestion of benefits arising from the service rendered underMessrs.	  M. M. Ispahani Ltd., and the other by the  workmenwith  respect to puja bonus for the year 1953.	 The  LabourAppellate Tribunal allowed both the appeals.  It held on thequestion  of bonus that it had been proved that	 puja  bonushad  become  a	term  of employment  and  the  workmen	weretherefore entitled to bonus at the rate of one month's wagesfor  the year 1953.  As to the benefits arising out  of	 theservice	 rendered  by  the  workmen  under  Messrs.   M.  M.Ispahani  Ltd.,	 it  held  that	 there	was  termination  ofemployment  of	the  workmen when Messrs.   M.	M.  Ispahanimigrated  to Pakistan and the employment of the	 workmen  bythe company was fresh employment and they therefore were notentitled  to  any benefits arising out of  their  employmentunder  Messrs.	 M. M. Ispahani Ltd.  Both the	company	 andworkmen	 applied for special leave to appeal to	 this  Courtagainst the decision of the Appellate Tribunal insofar as itwas  against them.  The applications were granted; and	thatis how the matter has come up before us.28We shall first take up the appeal of the company relating topuja bonus for the year 1953.  Two points have been urged inthis behalf, namely--(1)the Appellate Tribunal had no jurisdiction to interferewith  the  finding of the Industrial Tribunal as  it  was  afinding of fact; and(2)even	 if the Appellate Tribunal had	jurisdiction,  itsdecision is incorrect in law.Puja is a special festival in Bengal and it has become usualwith  many  firms there to give bonus before puja  to  theirworkmen.  This matter came up before the Appellate  Tribunalin Mahalaxmi Cotton Mills Ltd., Calcutta v. Mahalaxmi CottonMills Workers' Union.(1) In that case puja bonus was claimedas  a matter of right payable by the employer at  a  specialseason of the year, namely, at the time of the annual  DurgaPuja.	This  right was not based on the  general  principlethat  labour  and capital should share the  surplus  profitsavailable after meeting prior charges.	It was held in	thatcase  that  this right rested on an  agreement	between	 theemployer and the employees, and that the agreement might  beeither	express	 or implied.  Where the	 agreement  was	 notexpress,  circumstances	 might	lead  the  tribunal  to	  aninference of implied agreement.	 The following circumstanceswere  laid  down in that case as material for  inferring  animplied agreement:-(1)  The payment must be unbroken:(2)  It must be for a sufficiently long period; and(3)  The circumstances in which -payment was made should  besuch as to exclude that it was paid out of bounty.The, Appellate Tribunal further pointed out that it was	 notpossible  to lay down in terms what should be the length  ofperiod	to  justify the inference of implied  agreement	 andthat  would depend upon the circumstances of each case.	  Italso pointed out that the fact of payment in a year of	losswould  be  an important factor in excluding  the  hypothesisthat  the  payment was out of bounty and in  coming  to	 theconclusion that it was as a matter of obligation based(1)1952 L. A. C. 370.29on  implied  Agreement.	 As to the quantum of bonus  it	 waslaid  down  that even if payment was not at a  uniform	ratethroughout   the  period,  the	implied	 agreement  to	 paysomething could be inferred and it would be for the tribunalto decide what was the reasonable amount to be paid as	pujabonus.	 The  tests laid down in that case have	 since	beenfollowed  in a number of cases by the  Industrial  Tribunalsand   the  Labour Appellate Tribunal.  We do  not  think  itnecessary to, refer to all those cases.	 It may now be takenas  well  settled  that puja bonus in  Bengal  stands  on  adifferent  footing from the profit bonus based on  the	FullBench formula evolved in The Millowners' Association, Bombayv. The Rashtriya Mill Mazdoor Sangh, Bombay (1).  The  claimfor puja bonus in Bengal is based on either of two  grounds.It  may	 either	 be a matter of	 implied  agreement  betweenemployers  and employees creating a term of  employment	 forpayment of puja bonus, or (secondly) even though no  impliedagreement  can be inferred it may be payable as a  customarybonus.	In the present case we are concerned with the  firstcategory,  (namely,  that  based  on  an  implied  agreementcreating  a term of employment between the employer and	 theemployees),  and  so  we shall	confine	 ourselves  to	thatcategory.  It was this kind of bonus which was considered bythe Appellate Tribunal in Mahalaxmi Cotton Mills cause	(2).We are of opinion that the tests laid down in that case	 forinferring  that there was an implied agreement for grant  ofsuch  a	 bonus	are correct and it is  necessary  that	theyshould	all  be satisfied before bonus of this type  can  begranted.This brings us to the two questions raised on behalf of	 thecompany,  as  set out above.  The first	 question,  (namely,that the Appellate Tribunal had no jurisdiction to interferewith  the  finding of the Industrial Tribunal that  begin  aquestion  of  fact) can be easily disposed of.	 We  are  ofopinion	 that the decision whether there is an implied	termof employment is a mixed question of fact and law and not  apure question of fact.	This is similar to the decision, forexample, on a question whether a custom has been(1) 1950 L.L.J. 1247		  (2) 1952 L.A.C.37030established  or whether adverse possession has been  proved,or whether a Hindu family has ceased to be joint as a matterof  law accepting the facts proved.  The Appellate  Tribunalwill therefore have jurisdiction to consider whether on	 thefacts proved before the Industrial Tribunal an inference  inlaw  can  be drawn that an implied term	 of  employment	 forgrant  of  puja bonus has been established.   The  AppellateTribunal therefore had jurisdiction to consider this matter.The  next  question is whether in law the  decision  of	 theAppellate Tribunal drawing the inference of an implied	termof employment in this case is correct. The undisputed  factshere are these: The workmen when they were in the employ  ofMessrs.	 M.M. Ispahani Ltd. always used to get puja bonus atthe  rate  of one month's wages.  This was asserted  by	 theworkmen	 in their written statement and the company did	 notdeny  it  in  its  reply.  All that it	said  was  that	 thepractice  or custom prevalent at the time of  Messrs.	M.M.Ispahani Ltd. and the payment of bonus by that company	wereimmaterial  and	 did not bind the  company.   This  avermentimpliedly  admitted that Messrs.  M.. M. Ispahani Ltd.	usedto  pay	 puja  bonus as alleged	 by  the  respondents.	 Thecompany	 practically  took over the  business  from  Messrs.M.M. Ispahani Ltd. and it was found that it had been  payingbonus  ever since it came into existence from 1948 right  upto  1952 without any break at the rate of one month's  wagesand that this bonus was paid even in the years in which	 thecompany	 suffered  loss.   In  the  circumstances,  it	 wasestablished  in this case that (1) the payment was  unbrokenand (2) it was not paid out of bounty due to profits  havingarisen,	 for  it was paid in some years of loss	 also.	 Theonly other question that remains is whether it had been paidfor  a	sufficiently  long period in order  to	justify	 theinference  that it was an implied term of  employment.	 Thelength	of the period depends on the circumstances  of	eachcase  and  what	 may be a short	 period	 not  justifying  aninference  of an implied term of employment in one case	 maybe  long enough in another.  In the present case, since	 theappellant has paid the bonus31continuously  since its birth, we agree with  the  AppellateTribunal that the circumstances justify the inference of  animplied term of employment for payment of puja bonus at	 therate  of  one month's wages every year.	 The appeal  of	 thecompany must therefore fail.Turning now to the appeal of the workmen on the question  ofbenefits,  we  are  of	opinion that  the  decision  of	 theAppellate Tribunal on this question also is correct.  It  istrue that the company practically took over the business  ofMessrs.	  M.  M. Ispahani Ltd.	But, as pointed out  by	 theAppellate  Tribunal,  when  Messrs.   M.  M.  Ispahani	Ltd.transferred  their headoffice from Calcutta  to	 Chittagong,the  question arose of retrenching those employees who	werenot  willing  to go to Chittagong in view  of  the  expectedpartition  of India.  In these circumstances,  the  company,when  it  came into existence in September 1947,  agreed  toemploy	those  employees of Messrs.  M.	 M.  Ispahani  Ltd.,whose	services  were	likely	to  be	terminated.    Theseemployees.  apparently	agreed to the termination  of  theirservices  with Messrs.	M. M. Ispahani Ltd.,  and  thereforeobtained settlement of their claims for provident fund,	 andalso  received all arrears of salary from them.	  They	werethereafter  appointed, after withdrawal of  their  providentfund,  by  the	company.  There was no	express	 or  impliedundertaking  given  by the company regarding  continuity  ofservice	 and the employees joined the provident fund of	 thecompany	 afresh.  In the circumstances the decision  of	 theAppellate  Tribunal  on this question is  correct,  and	 theappeal of the workmen must also fail.We  therefore  dismiss both the appeals and  in	 consequenceorder the parties to bear their own costs of this Court.				   Appeals dismissed.32