PETITIONER:M. RAMAPPA	Vs.RESPONDENT:SANGAPPA AND OTHERSDATE OF JUDGMENT:21/08/1958BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.BENCH:SARKAR, A.K.AIYYAR, T.L. VENKATARAMAGAJENDRAGADKAR, P.B.CITATION: 1958 AIR  937		  1959 SCR 1167ACT:       Election Dispute-Disqualification for being chosen as member       of  State Assembly-Hereditary village office-Whether  office       of  Profit under the Government-Mysore Village Offices  Act,       1908  (Mysore 4 of 1908), ss. 6, 7, 8-Representation of	the       People  Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) s. 100(1)(c)-Constitution	 of       India, Art. 191.HEADNOTE:The  nomination papers of three candidates for	election  asmembers of the State Assembly were rejected by the Returning1168Officer on the ground that the first two of them were Patelsand  the  third, a Shanbhog, of their villages and  as	suchthey were holders of offices of profit under the  Governmentand consequentlydisqualified  from  membership	of   theState Assembly underArt.  191  of the  Constitution  ofIndia.	The validity of the election was challenged by	someof the electors of the constituency by an election  petitionunder s. 100(1)(c) of the Representation of the People	Act,1951, on the ground that the nomination papers of the  threecandidates were wrongly rejected.  It was contended for	 thepetitioners that the candidates in question were not holdersof  offices of profit under the Government because (1)	theywere holding their offices by hereditary right and not underthe Government, and (2) there was no direct payment of theirdues  by the Government.  It was not disputed  that  villageoffices	 are  governed by the Mysore  Village  Offices	Act,1908,  and  it	was found that	Patels	and  Shanbhogs	wereholding	 their offices by reason of the appointment  by	 theGovernment,  though  in certain cases the statute  gave	 theheir  of  the  last holder a right to be  appointed  if	 thestatutory  requirements	 were fulfilled,  that	they  workedunder the control and supervision of the Government and wereremovable by it, and that their remuneration was paid by  itout of its funds and assets :Held, that the holder of a village office though he may havea  hereditary  right,  does not get the office	till  he  isappointed  by the Government under whom the office is  held.Accordingly, Patels and Shanbhogs are holders of offices  ofprofit under the Government and their nomination papers wererightly rejected by the Returning Officer.JUDGMENT:CIVIL APPELLATE JURISDICTION' Civil Appeal No. 251 of 1958.Appeal from the judgment and order dated February 26,  1958,of the Mysore High Court in Misc.  Appeal No. 142 of 1957.R.   Patnaik, for the appellant.S.   K. Venkatranga Iyengar and N. Keshava Iyengar, for	 therespondents.1958.	August 21.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySARKAR	J.-The	question  for decision	in  this  appeal  iswhether	 certain persons were holders of offices  of  profitunder  the Government and were therefore disqualified  underArt. 191 of the Constitution, for being chosen as members ofa legislative assembly.	 It1169arises out of a petition presented under the  Representationof the People Act, 1951, for a declaration that the electionof the appellant was void.The  election with which the case is concerned, was held  onMarch  8,  1957, for choosing members for the  Mysore  StateLegislative  Assembly.	 One of the constituencies  for	 thepurposes of election to that Assembly was known as  Harihar.The  nomination	 papers	 filed	by  three  persons,  namely,Hanumanthappa, Siddappa and Guru Rao for election from	thatconstituency  were rejected by the Returning Officer on	 theground that the first two of them were Patels and the  thirda  Shanbhog of certain villages in Mysore and as  such	theywere  all  holders of offices of' profit  under	 the  MysoreGovernment and consequently disqualified from membership  ofthe Assembly' under Art. 191.  As a result of this rejectiontwo  candidates	 were left to contest the election  and	 theappellant,  who was one of them, was declared elected as  heobtained  the  larger  number of votes	at  the	 poll.	 Sixelectors of the Haribar constituency then filed the electionpetition  for  a  declaration under s.	100  (1)(c)  of	 theRepresentation of the People Act, 1951, that the election ofthe  appellant	was void on the ground that  the  nominationpapers	of  Hanumanthappa, Siddappa and Guru  Rao  had	beenimproperly  rejected.	If the rejection  was  improper	 thepetition  would have to be allowed.  The appellant  was	 thesole  respondent  to that petition.  It was alleged  in	 thepetition  that Patels and Shanbhogs were hereditary  villageofficers and therefore were not holders of offices of profitunder  the  Government.	 It was said that they	were  reallyrepresentatives of the village community, and only acted  asagents	of that community or as liaisons between it and	 theGovernment,  and that in any event they were not holders  ofoffices of profit because the amount of money receivable  bythem  in respect of their offices was very small and out  ofall  proportion to the work done by them.  The petition	 wasdismissed  by  the  Election Tribunal  by  its	order  datedSeptember 10, 1957.  It held that the conditions of  serviceof Patels and Shanbhogs were regulated by1170the Mysore Village Offices Act, 1908, and that the mere factthat offices of Patels and Shanbhogs were hereditary was notby itself sufficient to establish that they were not officesunder  the  Government.	 It also  held	that  Hanumanthappa,Siddappa  and  Guru  Rao were  in  receipt  of	considerableremuneration and were, therefore, holding offices of profit.The  six  petitioners  then appealed to the  High  Court  ofMysore.	 The High Court by its judgment, dated February	 26,1958, allowed the appeal and held that the offices of Patelsand  Shanbhogs were not offices under the  Government.	 Theelection  of the appellant was thereupon declared void.	  Itis from this judgment that the present appeal to this  Courthas  been  taken  with	a  certificate	granted	 under	Art.133(1)(c)  of the Constitution.	 One of the six	 petitionersbeing  dead, the remaining five are the respondents in	thisappeal.There  is no dispute that Hantimanthappa and  Siddappa	heldthe offices of Patels and as remuneration for their serviceslands  had  been  allotted to them and	provision  for	cashallowances made.  Likewise it is not disputed that Guru	 Raowas a Shanbbog and had cash remuneration provided to him forhis  services.	 It is also clear and  not  challenged	thatPatels and Shanbhogs have specific duties to perform and areholders	 of  offices.  The only point for  determination  inthis appeal is whether they are holders of offices under theMysore Government.The  contention of the learned Advocate for the	 respondentsis  that  Patels and Shanbhogs are not	holders	 of  officesunder  the  Government.	  He said that	their  offices	wererecognised  by	the  old  customary  law  and  devolved	  byhereditary  succession.	  According to him  under  that	 lawthese offices were held under the village community and	 theofficers  acted	 as  agents of that  community	to  pay	 therevenue	 of the village to the authority entitled to it	 andformed	 the  liaisons	between	 that  community   and	 theauthority.  He contended that under the Mysore Land  RevenueCode,	1888,  the  Government	could  appoint	Patels	 andShanbhogs  only	 where there were no hereditary	 Patels	 andShanbhogs.  He said that as Hanumanthappa and1171Siddappa  were admittedly hereditary Patels and Guru Rao,  ahereditary  Shanbhog,  they  could  not	 have  been  holdingoffices under the Government.  He contended that the  MysoreVillage	 Offices Act was a consolidating Act and it did	 notalter the hereditary right to the offices but maintained theold  law.  According to him being hereditary, these  officeswere not held under the Government.Village	 Offices  are  now governed by	the  Mysore  VillageOffices	 Act, 1908.  The election petition proceeds on	thisbasis  and  both  the  Courts below have  so  held  and	 thecontrary  has indeed not been contended in this Court.	 TheAct itself mentions the offices of Patels and Shanbhogs as "Village	 Offices " within it and puts the matter beyond	 alldoubt.	The Act, no doubt, recognises a hereditary right  tovillage offices to some extent and a larger hereditary rightto the offices is not claimed for Hanumanthappa, Siddappa orGuru  Rao.   A	consideration of the customary	law  of	 theMadras Land Revenue Code is, therefore, unnecessary.The  question then is, what is the effect of the  provisionsof   the  Mysore  Village  Offices  Act	 dealing  with	 thehereditary right to the offices ? First, there is s. 6 underwhich  when  two or more villages or  portions	thereof	 aregrouped	 together or amalgamated to form a new	village,  orone  village  is divided into 2 or more	 villages,  the	 oldvillage	 offices cease to exist and new offices have  to  becreated.   In choosing persons to fill such new offices	 theGovernment  has to select the best qualified from among	 thelast  holders of the offices which have ceased to  exist  orthe members of their families.	In these -cases obviously nofull  hereditary right to the office is recognised, for	 theoffices	 which	have ceased to exist may have been  held  bymembers	 of different families.	 All that s. 6 says is	thatthe  new  appointment  shall  be  made	from  amongst  thesefamilies.   So it is possible under this section to  appointto an office a person who is not the heir of the last holderof  the office abolished.  The important  section,  however,for the purpose of a hereditary right to the1491172office	is  s.	8 which provides for filling  up  a  vacancyoccurring  in  the office of a Patel or	 a  Shanbhog.	Sub-section	 (1)  states  that  certain  persons  shall  not  beeligible for the office.  It is there provided that a personwho has not attained majority or does not possess  requisitephysical or mental capability, or the prescribed educationalqualification, or has been convicted by a criminal court foran offence which, in the opinion of the prescribed  officer,disqualifies  him  for	holding	 the  office,  or  has	beenadjudged by that officer after an enquiry as prescribed,  tobe  of	general	 bad character, shall not  be  eligible	 forappointment.   Sub-section (2) provides that  succession  inthe  case of a permanent vacancy shall be regulated  by	 theordinary  provisions of the personal law applicable  to	 thelast bolder, provided that it shall devolve on a single heirand  that  where there are more persons than one  who  wouldunder  the  ordinary provisions of that law be	entitled  tosucceed	 to the last holder of the office, preference  shallbe  given  to the eldest member of the eldest  branch  amongthose  persons.	  This would seem to create a right  in	 theheir of the deceased holder of an office to succeed to	him.This right, however, is not an absolute right for he  cannotbe  appointed  if he is not eligible under  sub-s.  (1)	 norwhere the prescribed officer has declared under s. 7 (v)  indismissing  any holder of office, that the  dismissal  wouldentail	a forefeiture of the right of succession of all	 theundivided members of his family.  This is all the hereditaryright to an office that is provided by the Act.Let us, however, ignore the restriction,,; on the hereditaryright to the office mentioned in the Act and assume that theeldest	heir in the eldest branch of the last holder of	 it,is  entitled  to succeed to the office when he	vacates	 it.The question is, does this make the office one not under theGovernment  ?  The  learned  Advocate  for  the	  respondentcontended that it did and this contention has been  acceptedby  the	 High  Court.	The learned  Chief  Justice  in	 hisjudgment said " can the Government prevent him from succeed-ing to the permanent vacancy ? Such a person gets to1173that post not because he is appointed by the Government	 butby his own rights." He also supported his view by  referringto Mangal Sain v. State of Punjab (1) where it had been heldthat the mere fact that the Government has under a statute ahand  in  the  appointment and dismissal  of  the  ExecutiveOfficer of a Municipality, does not make him its servant.We think this view is untenable.  It overlooks the fact thatthe heir of the last holder does not get the office till lieis  appointed  to  it by the Government.   The	statute,  nodoubt,	gives him a right to be appointed by the  Governmentin  certain cases.  None the less, it is the appointment  bythe  Government	 that perfects his right to the	 office	 andmakes him the officer; without such appointment he does	 nothold  the office.  The Government makes the  appointment  tothe office though it may be that it has under the statute nooption	but  to	 appoint the heir to the office	 if  he	 hasfulfilled  the	statutory  requirements.   The	office	 is,therefore,  held  by  reason  of  the  appointment  by	 theGovernment  and not simply because of a hereditary right  toit.  The fact that the Government cannot refuse to make	 theappointment does not alter the situation.If  this  were	not so, the result would  be  curious.	 Ailoffice has to be held under someone for it is impossible  toconceive  of an office held under no one.   The	 appointmentbeing by the Government, the office to which it is made mustbe held under it for there is no one else under whom it	 canbe held.  The learned Advocate said that the office was heldunder the village community.  But such a thing is ail impos-sibility  for  village communities have since  a  very	longtime,  ceased to have any corporate existence.	The case  ofMangal	Sain v. The State of Punjab (1) does not assist	 forthere,	there  was the Municipality under which	 the  officecould  be  held	 though appointment to it was  made  by	 theGovernment.The learned Advocate for the respondent contended that thereare  certain  other sections of the Act	 which	support	 hiscontention.  First, we were referred to(1)  A.I.R. 1952 Punj. 58.1174s.11 which gives a person entitled to an office under s.8 ofthe  Act a right to sue before the prescribed authority	 forit or for the recovery of its emoluments.  We are unable  tosee that this section advances the matter further.  It	onlyshows  that  a person has a right to  be  appointed.   That,however,  as  we have earlier stated, is  not  enough.	 Theright alone does not make him the officer.  He must actuallybe  appointed  to the office and upon  such  appointment  hecomes  to  hold	 it  under the	Government.   We  were	alsoreferred  to s. 8, sub-s. (4) which provides that  when	 theheir of the last holder of an office who would otherwise  beentitled to succeed to it is a minor, the prescribed officershall  register	 him as a successor of the last	 holder	 andappoint some other qualified person to discharge the  dutiesof  the	 office	 during his  minority.	 This  provision  isequally	 unhelpful.   The  minor is  only  registered  as  asuccessor  and	on attainment of majority  or  within  threeyears  thereafter if lie is qualified under the Act, he	 canbe  appointed  to the office.  In the meantime	lie  is	 notappointed to the office nor does lie hold it.  Here again itis only on appointment after attainment of majority that theerstwhile  minor  heir	comes  to  hold	 the  office.	 We,therefore, come to the conclusion that though there may be ahereditary  right to hold an office, it is not held till  anappointment  to it is made by the Government and that  thereis no one except the Government under whom the office can beheld.We  have  so  far  dealt with  the  provisions	of  the	 Actconcerning appointments.  We will now turn to those  dealingwith  dismissal from office and other forms  of	 punishment.Section	 7  of the Act gives the prescribed officer  of	 theGovernment,  power to suspend, dismiss or remove any  holderof  a village office on any of the grounds mentioned in	 it.There  is no other power of dismissal given by the Act.	  Itis  said that this shows that the office is not	 held  underthe  Government	 for  if it were so, the  officer  would  beliable	to dismissal at the pleasure of the  Governor  underArt. 310 of the Constitution.  This argument was accepted bythe High Court but it seems to us to lack in substance.1175The  argument assumes that because of s. 7 of the  Act,	 theholder of a village office is. not liable to be dismissed atthe  pleasure of the Governor.	We think it  unnecessary  inthis case to decide whether this assumption is justified  ornot  and  will proceed on the basis that it is	the  correctview  of  the position.	 But does it follow that  because  avillage	 officer cannot be dismissed at the pleasure of	 theGovernor, he does not hold office under the Government ?  Ithas been recognised that a statute may prevent an officer ofthe  Government from being dismissed at its pleasure.	Thatis  what happened in Gould v. Stuart (1) referred to by	 theJudicial  Committee in R. Venkata Rao v. Secretary of  Statefor India (2).	In Gould v. Stuart (supra) it was said, that"  It  is  the law in New South Wales as  well	as  in	thiscountry	 that  in a contract for service  under	 the  Crown,civil as well as military, there is, except in certain caseswhere  it  is otherwise provided by law, imported  into	 thecontract a condition that the Crown has the power to dismissat  its	 pleasure: Dunn v. Reg; De Dohse v.  Reg  (3).	 Thequestion  then	to be determined is, Has the  Civil  ServiceAct,  1884, made an exception to this rule ? ", and  it	 washeld  that  it	had.  In the result it	was  held  that	 therespondent who had entered the service of the Government  ofNew South Wales under and in accordance with the, provisionsof  the	 Civil	Service	 Act, 1884, was	 not  liable  to  bedismissed at the pleasure of the Goverment because of  theseprovisions.   We  do  not say anything	as  to	whether	 theprinciple  of Gould V. Stuart (1) will apply to our  countryin  view of the, constitutional provision contained in	Art.310.   Such  a question has not been argued at the  bar	 anddoes  not require to be decided in this case.  If the  prin-ciple of that case does not apply, then the village officer,if he is a servant of the Government, is liable to dismissalit its pleasure, in spite of s. 7 of the Act and if it does,then  the fact that he is not liable to such dismissal	doesnot prove that he does not hold office under the Government.It would thus appear(1) [1896] A.C. 579.	      (2) (1936) L.R. 64 I.A. 55.(3) [1896] 1 Q.B. 117, n. (7).1176that the fact that an officer is not liable to dismissal  atthe pleasure of the Government does not by itself  establishthat he does not hold office under the Government.We now come to the question of the remuneration of a villageofficer.   The High.  Court in its judgment referred to	 therules  tinder  the  Act as to the mode	of  payment  of	 theemoluments and held that there was no direct payment of	 hisdues  by  the  Government  to  a  village  officer.    That,according  to the High Court, also showed that	the  officerdid  not  hold his office under the Government.	  This	viewalso  is, in our opinion, unfounded.  Government  lands	 areallotted  by  it to the officers by way	 of  emoluments	 forservices  to  be rendered and the cash allowances  are	alsofixed  by the Government.  It is true that under  the  rulescash  allowances are not paid directly by the Government  tothe  officers  but the latter are authorised to	 deduct	 theamounts	 thereof from the revenue collected by	them.	Thisdoes not show that the cash remunaration is not paid by	 theGovernment.    The   revenue  collected	  belongs   to	 theGovernment.  The Rules provide that where an officer deductsthe  cash  allowance from the revenue collected by  him	 anddeposits the balance in the Government Treasury, his receiptfor  the amount deducted shall be considered  equivalent  tothe payment into the Treasury of an equal sum in cash:	(seerule  75  XIII	of the Rules framed tinder  the	 Act).	 Theresult,	 therefore, of this rule is as if the entire  amountof  the	 revenue  collected  had  been	deposited  into	 thetreasury and part of it paid back to the officer on  accountof  his cash remuneration.  In any event, it seems clear  tous  that the cash allowance to the officer concerned is,  inspite of the procedure laid down in respect of its  payment,a payment by the Government out of its moneys.Lastly, we find that the duties of the village officers	 arefixed  by the Government and these officers work  under	 thedirection, control and supervision of the Government.	Thisis conceded.We then come to this that Patels and Shanbhogs are officers,who are appointed to their offices by the1177Government  though  it	may be that the	 Government  has  nooption	in certain cases but to appoint an heir of the	lastholder	;  that	 they hold their office by  reason  of	suchappointment  only  ; that they work under  the	control	 andsupervision  of	 the Government that their  remuneration  ispaid  by the Government out of Government funds and  assets;and  that  they are removable by the  Government,  and	thatthere is no one else under whom their offices could be held.All  these clearly establish that Patels and shanbhogs	holdoffices of profit under the Government.	 In this view of thematter	it  has	 to be held that the  nomination  papers  ofHanumanthappa,	Siddappa and Guru Rao were rightly  rejectedby  the	 Returning  Officer and	 the  election	petition  iswithout substance.The  appeal,  therefore,  succeeds  and	 is  allowed.	 Thejudgment  and  order of the High Court are  set	 aside,	 andthose  of  the	Election Tribunal  restored.   The  electionpetition  is  dismissed.   The	respondents  will  pay	 theappellant's costs throughout.			      Appeal allowed.