PETITIONER:BADRI RAI & ANOTHER	Vs.RESPONDENT:THE STATE OF BIHARDATE OF JUDGMENT:18/08/1958BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.BENCH:SINHA, BHUVNESHWAR P.IMAM, SYED JAFFERCITATION: 1958 AIR  953		  1959 SCR 1141ACT:       Evidence-Conspiracy to bribe a public servant-Statements	 of       co-conspirator-When  admissible against others-Indian  Penal       Code (Act 45 of 1860), ss. 120B, 165A-Indian Evidence Act (1       of 1872), s. 10.HEADNOTE:The appellants were prosecuted on charges under s. 120B readwith s. 165A of the Indian Penal Code, for having  conspiredto  commit  the	 offence  of bribing  a	 public	 servant  inconnection  with  the discharge of his public  duties.	 Thecase  against  them was that on August 24,  1953,  when	 theInspector  of Police who was in charge of the  investigationof a case in which the second appellant was involved, was onhis  way to the police station, the appellants accosted	 himon  the road and the second appellant asked him to  hush  upthe  case for valuable consideration.  Some days  later,  onAugust	31 the first appellant offered to the  Inspector  atthe  police station a packet containing Rs. 500 in  currencynotes  and told him that the second appellant had  sent	 themoney  through	him in pursuance of the talk that  they	 hadwith him on August 24, as a consideration for hushing up thecase.	The  courts below accepted the evidence	 adduced  onbehalf of the prosecution and convicted the appellants.	  Onappeal by special leave it was contended that the court	 hadno  reasonable	grounds to believe that the  appellants	 hadentered into a conspiracy to commit the offence and that thestatement  of  August  3 I was not  admissible	against	 thesecond	appellant because (1) the charge under s.  120B	 hadbeen  deliberately added in order that the act or  statementof  the one would be admissible against the other,  and	 (2)the object of the conspiracy, namely the payment of the hushmoney,	had  been  accomplished	 before	 the  statement	  inquestion was made:Held,  (1) that the incident of August 24 was evidence	thatthe intention to commit the offence had been entertained  byboth  the appellants on or before that date showing a  clearindication of the existence of the conspiracy, and that	 thestatement  made	 by  the first appellant on  August  31	 wasadmissible  not only to-prove that the second appellant	 hadconstituted   the   first  appellant  his   agent   in	 theperpetration of the crime but also to prove the existence ofthe  conspiracy	 ;  the court  was  therefore  justified  indrawing up the charge under S. 120B along with that under s.165A of the Indian Penal Code.(2)that	 the  payment of the bribe and	the  statement	ofAugust	 31   accompanying  it,	 were  part  of	  the	sametransaction,   having  been  made  in  the  course  of	 theconspiracy, and the1142statement  in question was therefore admissible under s.  10of the Indian Evidence Act.Mirza  Akbar v. The King Emperor, (1940) L. R. 67 I. A.	 336and R. v. Blake, (1844) 6 Q. B. 126, relied on.JUDGMENT:CRIMINAL  APPELLATE JURISDICTION: Criminal Appeal No. 79  of1956.Appeal	by special leave from the judgment and	order  datedSeptember  7,  1955,  of the Patna High	 Court	in  CriminalAppeal	No.  370 of 1954, arising out of  the  judgment	 andorder dated July 26, 1954, of the Court of the Special Judgeat Bhagalpur in Special Case No. 14 of 1954.B.   R. L. Iyengar, for appellant No. 1.S.   P. Sinha and P. C. Agarwala, for appellant No. 2.R. C. Prasad, for the respondent.1958.	August 18.  The Judgment of the Court was  deliveredbySINHA  J.-This appeal by special leave is  directed  againstthe  concurrent	 judgments and orders of the  courts  below,convicting  the	 two appellants under S. 120B read  with  s.165A,  Indian  Penal Code, and sentencing them	to  rigorousimprisonment  for  18 months, and to pay a fine of  Rs.	 200each, and in default of payment of fine, to undergo  furtherrigorous  imprisonment for 6 months.  A separate  convictionunder  S.  165A has been recorded in respect  of  the  firstappellant, Badri.  Under this head, he has been sentenced torigorous  imprisonment	for 18 months, the sentence  to	 runconcurrently with the sentence under the common charge.The  facts as found by the courts below, which could not  besuccessfully challenged before us, areas follows: The secondappellant,  Ramji  Sonar, is a goldsmith by  profession	 andruns  a shop on the main road in the village Naogachia.	  Inthat  village  there  is a police station and  the  shop  inquestion is situated in between the police station  buildingand the residential quarters of the Inspector of police, whowas  the  First	 Informant in the  case,  resulting  in	 theconviction and1143sentences  of  the appellants as stated	 above.	  The  firstappellant,  Badri, runs a school for small boys in the	samevillage about 50 yards away from the shop a foresaid of	 thesecond	appellant.  On August 22,1953, the First  Informant,who, holding the position of an Inspector of police, was  incharge	of  the police station, made a	seizure	 of  certainornaments and molten silver from a vacant building in  frontof  the	 house	of  the	 second	 appellant,  Ramji.    Thoseornaments  were being melted by six strangers  coining	fromdistant	 places, with implements for melting, said  to	havebeen  supplied	by  Ramji.   The seizure  was  made  on	 thesuspicion  that	 the ornaments and the	molten	silver	werestolen	property, which were to be sold to Ramji in a  shapewhich  could  not be identified with  any  stolen  property.After  making  the  seizure-list of'  the  properties,	thusseized, the police officer arrested Ramji, as also the othersix  strangers. -Ramji was .released on bail that very	day.Police investigations into the case, thus started, followed.During that period, on August 24, 1953, at about 7-30  p.m.,the  Inspector was on his way from his residential  quartersto the police station, when both the appellants accosted himon  the road, and Ramji asked him to hush up the case for  avaluable  consideration.   The Inspector told them  that  hecould  not  talk to them on the road, and that	they  shouldcome  to  the  police station.	 Thereafter,  the  Inspectorreported  the  matter to his superior  officer,	 the  D.S.P.(P.W. 8), and to the sub-inspector, P.W. 9, attached to	 thesame police station.  On August 31, the same year, the firstappellant,  Badri,  came  to the police	 station,.  saw	 theInspector  in the central room of the thana, and offered  tohim a packet wrapped in a piece of old newspaper, containingRs.  500 in currency notes.  He told the Inspector, (P.	 W.1), that the second appellant, Ramji, had sent the     moneythrough him in pursuance of the talk that they had with	 himin the evening of August 24, as a consideration for  hushingup the case that was pending against Ramji.  At the time theoffer was made, a number of police officers besides a  localmerchant,  (P.W. 7), were present there.  The  Inspector  atonce1144drew  up  the first information report of the offer  of	 thebribe  on his own statement and prepared a  seizure-list  ofthe money, thus offered, and at once arrested Badri and	 puthim in the thana lock-up.  After the usual investigation theappellants  were  placed  on their trial,  with	 the  resultindicated above.Both the courts below have found that the prosecution  case,a summary of which has been given above, has been proved  bygood  and reliable evidence, and that the defence case	thatthe  prosecution was started by the inspector out  of  spiteand  in order to defend himself against the consequences  ofwrongfully  arresting  Ramji,  was unfounded.	We  are	 notimpressed with the halting criticism of the evidence adducedin  this case on behalf of the prosecution and	accepted  bythe courts below.  Ordinarily, this Court does not interferewith concurrent findings of fact.The only serious question raised in this appeal is the pointraised	on  behalf  of the second appellant,  Ramji,  as  towhether the statement made by the first appellant, Badri, onAugust	31,  1953,  that  he had been  sent  by	 the  secondappellant  with the money to be offered by way of  bribe  tothe police officer, was admissible against him.	 The learnedcounsel for the appellant was not able clearly to  formulatehis grounds of objection to the admissibility of that  pieceof  evidence, which is the basis of the charge against	boththe accused persons.  Section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act,is  a complete answer to this contention. The section is  inthese terms:-" 10.  Where there is reasonable ground to believe that	 twoor more persons have conspired together to commit an offenceor  an actionable wrong, anything said, done or	 written  byany  one  of  such  persons in	reference  to  their  commonintention,  after  the time when such  intention  was  firstentertained  by	 any  one of them, is  a  relevant  fact  asagainst each of the persons believed to be so conspiring, aswell  for  the	purpose	 of proving  the  existence  of	 theconspiracy  as	for  the purpose of showing  that  any	suchperson was a party to it.  "The incident of August 24, when both the appellants1145approached  the inspector with the proposal that  he  shouldhush up the case against the second appellant, for which  hewould  be  amply  rewarded, is clear  evidence	of  the	 twopersons having conspired to commit the offence of bribing  apublic	servant	 in  connection with the  discharge  of	 hispublic duties.	There cannot, therefore, be the least  doubtthat  the court had reasonable grounds to believe  that	 theappellants  had	 entered  into a conspiracy  to	 commit	 theoffence.   Therefore,  the  charge under s.  120B  had	beenproperly  framed  against  both of  them.   That  being	 so,anything said or done by any one of the two appellants, withreference to the common intention, namely, the conspiracy tooffer  bribe, was equally admissible against both  of  them.The statement made by the first appellant on August 31, thathe  had been sent by the second appellant to make the  offerof  the	 bribe in order to hush up the case which  was	thenunder  investigation,  is admissible not  only	against	 themaker of the statement-the first appellant-but also  againstthe  second  appellant,	 whose	agent  the  former  was,  inpursuance  of the object of the conspiracy.  That  statementis  admissible not only to prove that the  second  appellanthad  constituted  the  first  appellant	 his  agent  in	 theperpetration of the crime, as also to prove the existence ofthe  conspiracy	 itself.   The incident	 of  August  24,  isevidence  that	the intention to commit the crime  had	beenentertained  by	 both  of  them	 on  or	 before	 that  date.Anything  said	or  done or written by any one	of  the	 twoconspirators on and after that date until the object of	 theconspiracy  had been accomplished, is evidence against	bothof them.It was faintly suggested on behalf of the second  appellant,that the charge under s. 120B of the Indian Penal Code,	 hadbeen deliberately added by the prosecution in order to	makethe  first  appellant's statement of August  31,  admissibleagainst the second appellant, as otherwise it could not havebeen  used as evidence against him.  As	 already  indicated,the  incident  of August 24, is a clear	 indication  of	 theexistence  of  the conspiracy, and the court  was  perfectlyjustified  in drawing up the charge under s. 120B also.	  Itis no1146answer	in  law	 to say that unless the	 charge	 under	thatsection	 had been framed, the act or statement of one  couldnot  be	 admissible against the other.	Section	 10  of	 theIndian Evidence Act, has been deliberately enacted in  orderto  make  such	acts  and  statements  of  a  co-conspiratoradmissible  against the whole body of conspirators,  becauseof  the	 nature of the crime.  A conspiracy  is	 hatched  insecrecy and executed in darkness.  Naturally, therefore,  itis not feasible for the prosecution to connect each isolatedact or statement of one accused with the acts or  statementsof the others, unless there is a common bond linking all  ofthem  together.	 Ordinarily, specially in a  criminal  case,one  person  cannot  be made responsible  for  the  acts  orstatements of another.	It is only when there is evidence ofa concerted action in :furtherance of a common intention  tocommit	a  crime, that the law has introduced this  rule  ofcommon	responsibility,	 on  the principle  that  every	 oneconcerned in a conspiracy is acting as the agent of the restof  them.   As soon as the court has reasonable	 grounds  tobelieve	 that there is identity of interest or community  ofpurpose	 between a number of persons, any act done,  or	 anystatement  or  declaration  made,  by any  one	of  the	 co-conspirators is, naturally, held to be the act or  statementof the other conspirators, if the act or the declaration hasany  relation to the object of the  conspiracy.	  Otherwise,stray  acts  done in darkness in prosecution  of  an  objecthatched	 in  secrecy, may not  become  intelligible  withoutreference to the common purpose running through the chain ofacts or illegal omissions attributable to individual membersof the conspiracy.It  was also suggested that the statement made by the  firstappellant  on August 31, about the purpose of  the  payment,having	been made after the payment, was not  admissible  inevidence  because  the	object of the  conspiracy  had	beenaccomplished  before  the statement in	question  was  made.Reliance was placed in this connection upon the decision  oftheir Lordships of the Judicial Committee in Mirza Akbar  v.The King Emperor.(1). But that decision is itself an  answerto the(1) (1940) L.R. 67 I.A. 336.1147contention raised.  The payment was made, and the  statementthat  it was being made with a view to hushing up  the	caseagainst	 the  second  appellant	 is  a	part  of  the	sametransaction,  that is to say, the statement accompanied	 theact of payment of the bribe.  Hence, it cannot be said	thatthe  statement was made after the object of  the  conspiracyhad already been accomplished.	The object of the conspiracywas  the hushing up of the criminal case against the  secondappellant by bribing the public servant who was in charge ofthe investigation of the case.	The object of the conspiracywas  yet far from being accomplished when the  statement  inquestion was made.  The leading case on the subject is	thatof R. v. Blake (1).  That decision is an authority both	 forthe  positive and the negative aspects of the question.	  Itlays down what is admissible and what is not admissible.  Itheld  that the documents actually used in  effectuating	 theobjects	 of the conspiracy, were admissible, and that  thosedocuments which had been created by one of the	conspiratorsafter  the object of the conspiracy had been achieved,	werenot admissible. section 10 of the Indian Evidence Act is  onthe  same  lines.   It is manifest  that  the  statement  inquestion in the present case was made by the first appellantin the course of the conspiracy, and accompanied the act  ofthe  payment  of the money, and is clearly  covered  by	 theprovisions  of s. 10, quoted above.  It must, therefore,  beheld that there is no substance in the only question of	 lawraised in this appeal.	It is, accordingly, dismissed.Appeal dismissed.(1) (1844) 6 Q.B. 126 ; 115 E.R. 49.1461148